the last 3 months, recently issued with bank stamp and signature (not older than one week). personal itr acknowledgement for the last 3 years. (if submitting only two years of itr, the applicant must provide a notarized consent letter (by a ca or lawyer) explaining the reason for the limited submission.) optional additional financial documents (fd, mutual funds, etc.). note: an employer id card may be required only if youre retired and dont have any official documents from your previous employer. requirements for self-employed business owners: gst certificate (all pages). company and personal itr for the last 3 years. company and personal bank statements for the last 3 months, stamped and signed (not older than one week). optional additional financial documents (fd, mutual funds, etc.). a cover letter should be on company letterhead with stamps and authorised signatures. for business partners: partnership deed copy. for company directors: moa of the company. for freelancers: earnings statement for the last 6 months (month-wise). the savings account statement for the last 3 months is stamped and signed (not older than one week). personal itr acknowledgement for the last 3 years. requirements for student: bonafide certificate or noc from school/institution. student id card copy. if retired: retirement proof. pension slip for the last 3 months. if sponsored/invited: provide proof of sponsorship or private accommodation, along with a completed national form and sponsorship letter from a schengen state. submitting these documents ensures that the schengen authorities have comprehensive information about the applicants background, identity, and financial capabilities. proper preparation and organisation of the application documents will significantly improve the chances of a successful schengen visa application. what is the schengen visa fee for indian citizens? the schengen visa fee for indians is: adults (12 years and above):90 (approximately 8,035) children aged 6 to 12 years:
