us visa process 2025 for all nationalities updated rules timeline the us visa process is the official pathway that individuals from other countries must follow to legally enter the united states. it ensures that only qualified individuals with valid reasons for travelsuch as tourism, education, business, employment, or immigrationare permitted entry. in 2025, the system has become more digital, applicant-friendly, and streamlined, while still maintaining high-security standards to safeguard national interests. there are two primary visa categories under u.s. immigration law: non-immigrant visas (niv): these are for individuals who plan to stay in the u.s. temporarily. common types include b1/b2 for tourists and business visitors, f1 for students, and h1b for skilled workers. immigrant visas (iv): these are issued to individuals seeking to live permanently in the united states, such as those sponsored by family members or employers, or those selected in the diversity visa (dv) lottery. the us visa process is the official pathway that individuals from other countries must follow to legally enter the united states. it ensures that only qualified individuals with valid reasons for travelsuch as tourism, education, business, employment, or immigrationare permitted entry. in 2025, the system has become more digital, applicant-friendly, and streamlined, while still maintaining high-security standards to safeguard national interests. there are two primary visa categories under u.s. immigration law: non-immigrant visas (niv): these are for individuals who plan to stay in the u.s. temporarily. common types include b1/b2 for tourists and business visitors, f1 for students, and h1b for skilled workers. immigrant visas (iv): these are issued to individuals seeking to live permanently in the united states, such as those sponsored by family members or employers, or those selected in the diversity visa (dv) lottery. for example, citizens from countries with strong diplomatic ties to the u.s. might experience faster interview
