Research and Evaluation
Evaluation of CIC’s
 Visitor Visa Program
Evaluation Division
August 2012
 
Ci4-99/2012E 
978-1-100-21569-3 
Reference number: RR20120901
 
- i - 
Table of contents  
Executive summary ......................................................................................................................................... ii 
Evaluation of CIC’s Visitor Visa Program - Management response ................................................................. vii 
1. Introduction ...................................................................................................................................... 1 
1.1. Organization of the report................................................................................................................ 1 
1.2. Program background ........................................................................................................................ 1 
2. Methodology ..................................................................................................................................... 3 
2.1. Evaluation scope ............................................................................................................................... 3 
2.2. Approach .......................................................................................................................................... 3 
2.3. Lines of evidence .............................................................................................................................. 3 
2.3.1. Document review ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
2.3.2. Key informant interviews ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
2.3.3. Case studies ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
2.3.4. Administrative data analysis --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
2.3.5. Literature review ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 5 
2.4. Limitations and considerations ........................................................................................................ 6 
3. Findings ............................................................................................................................................. 7 
3.1. Relevance ......................................................................................................................................... 7 
3.1.1. Continued need -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 7 
3.1.2. Alignment with GoC and CIC objectives and outcomes ----------------------------------------------------- 9 
3.1.3. Alignment with roles and responsibilities --------------------------------------------------------------------- 10 
3.2. Performance – policy ...................................................................................................................... 11 
3.2.1. Visa policy framework ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 11 
3.2.2. Country monitoring -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 13 
3.2.3. Partner consultations ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 15 
3.2.4. Visa policy recommendations ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
3.3. Performance – implementation ..................................................................................................... 18 
3.3.1. Processing -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 19 
3.3.2. Communications------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 25 
3.4. Performance – Achieving integrity and facilitation outcomes ....................................................... 26 
3.4.1. Integrity of the immigration system ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 26 
3.4.2. Integrity of the asylum system ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 30 
3.4.3. Facilitation of travel ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 33 
3.4.4. Balancing facilitation with integrity ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 38 
3.4.5. Other impacts related to visa requirement changes ------------------------------------------------------- 39 
3.5. Efficiency, economy and alternatives ............................................................................................. 41 
3.5.1. Resource utilization -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 41 
3.5.2. Alternatives ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 44 
4. Conclusions and recommendations ................................................................................................. 50 
Appendix A: Evaluation matrix .................................................................................................................. 53 
 
Technical appendices are available upon request to Research_Recherche@cic.gc.ca   
 
- ii - 
Executive summary 
Purpose of the evaluation 
This report presents the findings of the evaluation of CIC‘s Visitor Visa Program. This evaluation 
was completed to meet the requirements of the Directive on the Evaluation Function (TBS, 2009), 
and the commitments made in CIC’s Performance Measurement and Evaluation Plan (PMEP) 
relating to the visa imposition on Mexico. The purpose of this evaluation was to assess the Visitor 
Visa Program in relation to:  
 Continued Program relevance; 
 Program performance; and 
 Resource utilization and alternatives.  
The data collection for the evaluation was undertaken by CIC’s Research and Evaluation Branch 
(R&E) between April 2011 and January 2012. 
Visitor Visa Program background 
Throughout the report the term “Visitor Visa Program” should be understood as comprising of the 
following two components:  
Policy component 
Under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA), every foreign national travelling to Canada 
must obtain a temporary resident visa (TRV) before arriving, except where an exception is granted 
to citizens of selected countries under section 1901 of the IRP Regulations. Any changes in visa 
requirements are grounded in CIC’s visitor visa framework. Ongoing monitoring, country reviews 
and consultations are carried out to inform visa policy recommendations (whether citizens from a 
particular country require a visa or not).  
Implementation component  
A foreign national needs to apply for a TRV at a Canadian visa office abroad. If the application is 
accepted, the TRV is issued to the applicant and they may travel to Canada, subject to the 
determination of entry by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) at a port of entry (POE). 
CIC informs potential travellers about the requirements for a visa and processes the applications 
once received.  
Program objectives/outcomes 
CIC’s Visitor Visa Program seeks to achieve a balance between facilitating legitimate travel while 
protecting the integrity of the immigration and asylum system and, in the longer term, protecting 
the health, safety and security of Canadians.  
                                                           
1 Section 190 of the IRP Regulations identifies which countries do not require a visa to enter Canada. In addition, 
persons described in R39 and holders of Temporary Resident Permits (TRPs) are also exempted from the TRV 
requirement; however, those exemptions are outside the scope of this evaluation. 
 
- iii - 
Methodology 
The key areas of study are the following: 
 CIC’s country-level visa policy: focuses on the assessment of the policy framework and the 
evidence gathered to support recommendations for visitor visa requirement changes;  
 Implementation of visa regulations: an examination of visa processing activities in missions 
abroad and related communications activities; and 
 Mexico visa regulatory change: an examination of the design, implementation, and impact 
(performance) of the Mexico visa regulation (as required by the regulatory PMEP).  
The evaluation focused on the relevance and performance of the Visitor Visa Program, as well as an 
examination of alternatives. Lines of evidence drawn upon for this evaluation included interviews, 
document review, literature review and analysis of administrative data. Four case studies were 
examined, with a separate report on the Mexico regulatory change.  
Limitations 
There were a number of limitations that should be considered in the context of this report. These 
include the fact that the perspectives of affected country representatives and international partners 
were not included in the evaluation; and that, at the time of data collection, CIC was introducing 
several initiatives intended to streamline visa processing. Because they had not been in place for a 
sufficient length of time, the evaluation was not able to assess their effectiveness. However, it is 
important to note that these limitations have not significantly influenced the findings, conclusions 
or recommendations made in the evaluation report.  
Evaluation findings 
The main findings associated with each of the evaluation questions are presented below. 
Relevance 
There is a continued strong need to facilitate and control the movement of temporary residents. 
The visitor visa addresses this need and is used by Canada to leverage the benefits and decrease the 
risks associated with the temporary movement of foreign nationals to and from Canada.  
The objectives of the visa policy framework are consistent with Government-of-Canada (GoC) and 
CIC priorities, objectives and outcomes. Under the revised CIC PAA, the alignment of the Visitor 
Visa Program under Strategic Outcome 4 (Managed migration that promotes Canadian interests 
and protects the health, safety, and security of Canadians) obscures the dual nature of the 
Program’s objectives, which are intended to balance facilitation of travel and protection of the 
integrity of the immigration and refugee system. 
With its specific dual mandate, CIC is the most appropriate federal department to design and 
implement Canada’s Visitor Visa Program even though there may be some overlap with the 
protection and facilitation mandates of other federal departments.  
 
- iv - 
Performance 
Policy  
CIC’s policy framework and monitoring and country review processes are viewed as adequate. The 
criteria and thresholds largely match international practices, although few countries use refugee 
claim rates as an indicator to inform their visa changes. Some indicators of system integrity risks 
(such as overstays) are not currently included in the process due to lack of data collection systems. 
CIC engages appropriate partners and there is adequate collaboration to inform visa 
recommendations; some OGDs feel that they are not engaged early enough in the process or that 
their views have not always been reflected in the final decision.  
Monitoring and evidence from country reviews are regularly used to support visa policy 
recommendations and the regulatory process. However, evidence is ultimately weighed and other 
internal and external factors play a part in the final decision to impose or lift a visa.  
Implementation  
CIC has been able to meet the processing demand for TRVs to date with some extension of time 
required to process applications. While CIC has the capacity to address seasonal fluctuations, 
addressing major regulatory changes requires additional resources. Recent streamlining initiatives 
show some positive effects on processing activities; however, it is too early to assess their long-term 
impact.  
The timeliness and breadth of CIC’s communication strategies related to immigration are 
reasonable and address a variety of potential client information needs. As materials supporting 
decisions on changes to visa requirements are subject to Cabinet confidence, CIC faces 
communication constraints related to the timing of information being released to partners, 
stakeholders and to the public.  
Achieving outcomes  
The visitor visa is an effective tool that helps protect the integrity of CIC’s immigration and asylum 
system through selecting low-risk countries for visa-free travel, and potentially acting as a deterrent 
for non-bona fide travellers. Its role as a mechanism to prevent immigration violations is less 
certain. The impact of the visitor visa on irregular migration is difficult to measure due to lack of 
data on certain indicators (e.g. overstays). 
 CIC’s Visitor Visa Program facilitates the movement of bon fide travellers, as evidenced by the fact 
that the TRV processing requirements are similar to those in other countries; by reaching CIC 
targets for approval rates; and by introducing other facilitative approaches and tools.  
CIC’s visitor visa policy, supported by other tools with similar objectives, is largely perceived to 
have successfully achieved a balance between protecting the integrity of its immigration and asylum 
system and the facilitation of bona-fide travel to Canada. In addition, the visa policy is flexible and 
has the ability to allow CIC to react to contextual changes. 
The removal of visa exemptions affects Canada’s bilateral relations with countries impacted by the 
change. Furthermore, the introduction or removal of visitor visa requirements can impact CIC 
partners’ operations and political mandates.  
 
- v - 
There is a potential negative impact on the Canadian tourism industry when a visa exemption is 
removed, as it is expected to result in a decrease in the number of travellers from the affected 
country. Conversely, when a visa exemption is granted, it should have a positive impact on tourism. 
The available evidence supports these assumptions, although data on the magnitude of the impact 
are mixed. 
Costs and alternatives 
Although the evaluation framework did not include a detailed analysis of program costs, available 
data suggests that there are several financial resource implications associated with TRVs. 
Furthermore, according to internal financial data, the costs of processing a visa are higher than the 
revenue generated from TRV fees. 
There are several potential alternatives to CIC’s approach to TRVs. While they are unlikely to better 
meet CIC’s facilitation and integrity objectives at the present time, some could be effectively used 
to supplement existing frameworks, tools and indicator, thereby creating a more encompassing 
system. 
Relevance/alternatives 
The visitor visa is a relevant tool as it addresses the need to manage the movement of temporary 
residents. It remains widely used by peer countries. In the majority of cases, Canada’s visa 
exemption list aligns with its peers. This creates an environment where Canada facilitates travel, 
while preventing the entry of travellers that could pose risks to the integrity of the immigration and 
asylum system and the safety and health of Canadians.  
While potential alternatives to Canada’s visitor visa exist, such as an electronic travel authorization 
(eTA) system, the visitor visa will remain the most effective tool to manage migration until other 
tools are further investigated / implemented and their effectiveness is assessed.  
Recommendation #1: Canada should continue using the visitor visa as a tool to manage migration, 
while at the same time investigate the feasibility of introducing supplementary tools to better meet its objectives 
(protection and facilitation). In doing so, CIC should take into account the benefits, risks and resource needs 
associated with implementing each option.  
Performance 
Policy  
Monitoring and evidence from country reviews are regularly used to support visa policy 
recommendations and the regulatory process. However, the visitor visa program, as currently 
designed, focuses on CIC’s own objectives and is not taking a whole-of-government approach. 
While the policy process seeks input of relevant other government departments, there is a need to 
improve their involvement and participation in analysis and decision-making processes.  
Recommendation #2: CIC should assess, with its federal government partners, the strengths and 
weaknesses of the current partner engagement strategy in visa policy development, to address their needs and 
concerns and gauge the feasibility of broadening the considerations during the visa review process, towards an 
increased whole-of-government approach. 
 
- vi - 
Processing  
The evaluation presented recent CIC efforts to introduce or expand various facilitative 
mechanisms; such as VACs, multiple entry visas, long-term visas, business express program, etc. to 
ensure streamlining of processing of applications. Those initiatives have the purpose of creating 
streamlined processes to make it easier for clients to visit Canada and reduce resource utilization at 
CIC. As those are fairly new initiatives, this evaluation did not assess effectiveness of those 
mechanisms at this point.  
In addition, the evaluation reviewed the role of the VAC in supporting processing in Mexico, 
identified some benefits but also the importance of undertaking performance and contract reviews 
to ensure compliance. With expansion of the VAC network in the world, CIC is relying increasingly 
on a variety of third-party organizations to support the TRV process. The expansion of VAC to a 
global network is a new initiative and creates new opportunities and possible challenges.  
Recommendation #3: CIC should develop strategy and assessment tools to measure the impact of the 
various facilitative mechanisms, in terms of their objectives and effectiveness in managing processing demands. 
This should also include an assessment of the VAC network and its effectiveness in assisting the modernizing 
of CIC operations.  
Integrity of the immigration and asylum systems  
The visitor visa is an effective tool that helps protect the integrity of CIC’s immigration and asylum 
system by reducing irregular migration (primarily unfounded refugee claims), and potentially 
playing a deterrence role. Measuring the overall impact of the visa on irregular migration is 
challenging due to lack of data on certain indicators (i.e. overstays, illegally working in Canada, etc.). 
Recommendation #4: CIC should explore other, more effective methods of collecting data on irregular 
migration, such as overstays, to better inform policy-makers about the success of the program in achieving its 
immigration and asylum system integrity objectives. 
 
- vii - 
Evaluation of CIC’s Visitor Visa Program - Management response 
Recommendations Response Action Accountability Completion 
date 
1. Canada should continue 
using the visitor visa as a 
tool to manage migration, 
while at the same time 
investigate the feasibility 
of introducing 
supplementary tools to 
better meet its objectives 
(protection and 
facilitation).  In doing so, 
CIC should take into 
account the benefits, risks 
and resource needs 
associated with 
implementing each option. 
CIC agrees with this finding.  
As a result of this evaluation as well as initiatives under 
development as part of the Canada-US Shared Vision for 
Perimeter Security and Economic Competitiveness, CIC will 
undertake a review of the visa policy framework to ensure it 
continues to meet the objectives to manage migration to 
Canada and it is positioned to support the introduction of 
supplementary tools. 
One such initiative, the Electronic Travel Authorization 
(eTA), is under development to allow Canada to screen 
visa-exempt travellers before travel to Canada. In the long 
term, the introduction of the eTA, planned for 2015-16, will 
enable CIC to explore new options to improve the balance 
between protection and facilitation. 
 
 CIC will launch and complete the 
review of the visa policy 
framework.  
 
 
 
 Put in place the authorities and 
tools required to support the 
implementation of the eTA 
programme 
 
Admissibility 
 
 
 
 
Admissibility 
 
 
Q4 2012-13 
 
 
 
 
Q4 2015-16 
2. CIC should assess, with its 
federal government 
partners, the strengths and 
weaknesses of the current 
partner engagement 
strategy in visa policy 
development, to address 
their needs and concerns 
and gauge the feasibility of 
broadening the 
considerations during the 
visa review process, 
towards an increased 
whole-of-government 
approach. 
CIC partially agrees with this finding. 
Consultations with federal government departments are an 
intrinsic part of the country monitoring and reviews as well as 
the decision-making process on changes in visa requirements. 
CIC will continue its engagement of its federal partners, and 
encourages their participation, to identify the full range of 
considerations and potential impacts related to changes in 
visa requirements. 
Ultimately, however, Canada’s visa policy and visa 
requirements serve to manage migration to Canada. Thus, 
while efforts are made within the review process to identify 
impacts and considerations related to Government of Canada 
priorities and interests, decision-making will continue to be 
based within an approach that balances the facilitation of 
travel with the need to protect the health, safety and 
security of Canadians. 
 
 Continue to engage federal 
government departments and 
agencies on country reviews and 
proposed changes to Canada’s 
visa requirements. 
 
 
 As part of the Review of the visa 
policy framework, in consultation 
with its partners, CIC will review 
its engagement practices and 
strategies to ensure they are 
relevant and sufficient to gather 
and represent the considerations 
and views of partners. 
 
Admissibility 
 
 
 
Admissibility 
 
Ongoing 
 
 
 
Q4 2012-13 
 
- viii - 
Recommendations Response Action Accountability Completion 
date 
3. CIC should develop strategy 
and assessment tools to 
measure the impact of the 
various facilitative 
mechanisms, in terms of 
their objectives and 
effectiveness in managing 
processing demands. This 
should also include an 
assessment of the VAC 
network and its 
effectiveness in assisting 
the modernizing of CIC 
operations. 
CIC agrees with this finding. 
In preparation for the expansion of the global VAC network 
beginning in Fall 2012 CIC is standardizing a governance 
framework with a three-tiered reporting structure between 
CIC and the Contractor. Regular reports will be required from 
the Contractor which will be reviewed by CIC.  A Performance 
Measurement Plan consisting of contractor compliance, 
quality assurance reviews and formal audits is also being 
developed. 
To better monitor the progress of modernization initiatives, 
CIC has developed a Modernization Performance Management 
Framework that provides a structured approach for 
measuring and reporting on modernization outputs and 
outcomes over the next three years.  In order to respond to 
increasing processing demands, CIC aims to maximize 
effectiveness through modernization initiatives that will 
increase centralization of intake and processing of 
applications, increased network-wide flexibility of workload 
distribution,  improved risk management and program 
integrity. In addition, CIC will gain efficiencies through 
improvements to application submission options, including 
e-applications for TR and implementation of paperless 
processing using e-storage and e-payment. 
 
The new global VAC contract will 
include a standardized framework of 
governance including a three-tiered 
reporting structure including a 
Performance Management Plan is 
being developed and will be 
implemented with the deployment 
of each VAC as part of the global 
network. 
Monitor and Report Modernization 
through: 
 Modernization Measurement Plan 
 Modernization Roadmap 
 Modernization Dashboard 
 
Operations/ 
International 
Region 
 
 
 
 
Operations/ 
OPMB 
 
 
 
 
Ongoing 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ongoing 
4. CIC should explore other, 
more effective methods of 
collecting data on irregular 
migration, such as 
overstays, to better inform 
policy-makers about the 
success of the program in 
achieving its immigration 
and asylum system integrity 
objectives. 
CIC agrees with this finding.  
While the Government of Canada does not yet systematically 
collect data on overstays, it is expected that the Entry-Exit 
Information System initiative, which is to be implemented 
under the Canada-US Shared Vision for Perimeter Security 
and Economic Competitiveness and led by the Canada Border 
Services Agency (CBSA), will provide CIC with additional data 
on irregular migration which will bolster CIC’s visa policy 
framework and review process. 
 Undertake a review of data 
requirements to support country 
monitoring and visa policy 
changes as part of the Review of 
the Visa Policy framework.  
 Work in collaboration with the 
CBSA to identify and leverage the 
potential for new data and 
information sources. 
Admissibility 
 
 
 
Admissibility 
Q4 2012-13 
 
 
 
Q4 2014-15 
(and 
ongoing) 
 
 
 
1 
1. Introduction 
This report presents the findings of the evaluation of the CIC Visitor Visa Program. This 
evaluation was completed to meet the requirements of the Directive on the Evaluation Function 
(TBS, 2009), and the commitments made in CIC’s Performance Measurement and Evaluation Plan 
(PMEP) relating to the visa imposition on Mexico. The purpose of this evaluation was to assess the 
Visitor Visa Program in relation to:  
 Continued Program relevance; 
 Program performance; and 
 Resource utilization and alternatives.  
It is important to note that a “Visitor Visa Program” does not exist in the Department as a 
traditional program; rather, CIC’s Admissibility Branch is responsible for the development and 
maintenance of Canada’s visa policy that governs whether or not citizens from a particular country 
require a visa to enter Canada. This policy is operationalized through CIC’s International Region by 
processing temporary resident visas abroad. These two components fall under the Program 
Activity Architecture (PAA) element 4.2.2 – Visitors, which is part of Strategic Outcome 4 – 
Managed migration that promotes Canadian interests and protects the health, safety, and security of Canadians. 
Therefore, for the purposes of simplification, throughout the report the term “Visitor Visa 
Program” should be understood as referring to both of these components collectively.  
1.1. Organization of the report  
The report consists of four sections: Chapter 1 provides the background of the program; Chapter 2 
describes the methodology used to conduct the evaluation; Chapter 3 presents the evaluation 
findings and evidence; and Chapter 4 contains recommendations based on the findings and 
conclusions of the evaluation.  
1.2. Program background  
Under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA), every foreign national travelling to Canada 
must have a temporary resident visa (TRV) before arriving, except where an exception is granted to 
citizens of selected countries under section 1902 of the IRP Regulations.  
A foreign national who wishes to come to Canada from a visa-required country needs to apply for 
a TRV at a Canadian visa office abroad (CVOA). If the application is accepted, the TRV is issued to 
the applicant in their travel document and they may travel to Canada, subject to the determination 
of entry by the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) personnel at a port of entry (POE).  
There are many potential benefits that result from the temporary migration of foreign visitors to 
Canada, such as the development and growth of the tourism industry, increases to trade and 
international understanding, and cultural exchanges. While Canada may benefit from international 
travel, it may also be exposed to risks ranging from the potential spread of infectious diseases, 
admission of persons who pose a safety or security risk, transnational crime, and human trafficking.  
Canada assesses countries against several criteria and risk factors when deciding whether to lift or 
impose a visa requirement. From 2002 to 2012, visa exemptions were extended to nine countries, 
                                                           
2 Section 190 of the IRP Regulations identifies which countries do not require a visa to enter Canada.  In addition, 
persons described in R39 and holders of Temporary Resident Permits (TRPs) are also exempted from the TRV 
requirement; however, those exemptions are outside the scope of this evaluation.   
 
2 
while visa requirements were introduced for five countries. Citizens of 55 countries and territories 
are currently visa-exempt for travel to Canada, while citizens of 142 countries and territories are 
visa-required.  
For the countries for which a visitor visa is required, the processing of visitor visa applications from 
persons intending to travel to Canada is carried out by CIC in the missions abroad, in cooperation 
with its federal partners. In total, there are 86 offices with CIC presence abroad in 72 countries; 
currently 64 are processing visitor visa applications. In 2010, CIC processed applications from over 
one million persons seeking temporary resident visas as tourists and business visitors to Canada, 
and issued visitor visas, permits and extensions to around 865,000 persons.  
Visitor Visa Program 
The following sections describe the key activities and outcomes of the Visitor Visa Program (see 
Technical appendices) stemming from the two components of the Program: policy and 
implementation. 
Visa Policy: The following activities take place to inform recommendations on the exemption or 
re-imposition of a visa requirement:  
 Visa policy framework development: In 2005, CIC established a set of formal criteria to be 
used to guide the development of visa policy recommendations; including indicators and 
threshold values.  
 Country monitoring: This refers to the activities that gather evidence on country conditions, 
to support ongoing risk analysis, as well as the development of recommendations. 
 Consultations/coordination: To support the development of visa requirement 
recommendations, CIC conducts consultations with other federal government partners. 
The above activities are designed to enable CIC to make recommendations that are evidence-based, 
risk-based, and consultative (immediate outcome).  
Implementation: The implementation component of the Visitor Visa Program has the following 
key activities:  
 Processing: CIC officers assess applications, in cooperation with federal security and health 
partners. If the application is accepted, the TRV is issued to the applicant as a secure 
counterfoil document affixed to their passport and they may travel to Canada. It is important to 
note that a TRV does not guarantee entry to Canada; entry is still subject to determination by 
the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) personnel at the POE.  
 Communications: Regular communications are required in order to provide potential 
applicants with timely information on application requirements, processing, timelines, etc. In 
the case of changes to the visitor visa policy, these decisions must be communicated to the 
affected stakeholders.  
These activities should result in informing relevant stakeholders about visa requirements and 
meeting the demand for visitor visas (immediate outcome).  
At the intermediate level, both components of the CIC’s Visitor Visa Program seek to balance the 
objectives of facilitating legitimate travel while protecting the integrity of the immigration and 
asylum system and, in the longer term, protection of Canada’s interests and the health, safety and 
security of Canadians.  
 
3 
2. Methodology 
2.1. Evaluation scope 
Data collection for this evaluation took place between April and December 2011, with the 
evaluation covering April 2005 to March 2011. Some recent events are reflected in the report as 
context for the purpose of capturing further developments in the visitor visa program. The key 
areas of study are the following: 
 CIC’s country-level visa policy: focuses on the assessment of the policy framework and the 
evidence gathered to support recommendations for visitor visa requirement changes;  
 Implementation of visa regulations: an examination of visa processing activities in missions 
abroad and related communications activities; and 
 Mexico visa regulatory change: an examination of the design, implementation, and impact 
(performance) of the Mexico visa regulation.  
There are several issues directly or tangentially related to the visitor visa continuum that are beyond 
the scope of this report and will be assessed within other evaluations. These issues include: health 
and security screening and the in-Canada asylum system. While this evaluation does not 
comprehensively examine these issues, they are described in the context of the visitor visa 
continuum.  
Prior to the completion of this report, in November 2011, the Office of the Auditor General 
(OAG) released its Fall report, one chapter of which pertained to the issuance of visas. Although 
there is some overlap between that report and this evaluation, the focus of the OAG audit was “to 
determine whether CIC and CBSA have managed the risks associated with determining 
admissibility under the Act’s provisions related to health, safety, and security before issuing visas to 
foreign nationals,”3 rather than the broader visa policy framework development and 
implementation examined in the current study.4  
2.2. Approach  
The evaluation focused on the relevance and performance of the Visitor Visa Program, as well as an 
examination of alternatives (see Appendix A: Evaluation matrix).  
The evaluation did not use an experimental design as it was not possible to create a control group. 
Certain elements of a quasi-experimental design were applied when comparing the pre- and post- 
situations of the case study countries, and when comparing the visa-required and non-required 
countries.  
2.3. Lines of evidence 
Several lines of evidence were used for this evaluation, including both quantitative and qualitative 
sources. Each evaluation question was assessed using at least two lines of evidence. Using multiple 
                                                           
3 Office of the Auditor General, 2011. “Fall Report of the Auditor General, Chapter 2: Issuing Visas”. 
www.oag-bvg.gc.ca/internet/English/parl_oag_201111_02_e_35934.html 
4 Note: Both CIC and CBSA have accepted the recommendations made by the Auditor General, and have provided 
action plans for addressing the issues raised in that report. 
 
4 
lines of evidence allowed questions to be examined from several perspectives, providing greater 
reliability and validity of the findings when these lines of evidence converged. 
2.3.1. Document review 
A document review was conducted to provide descriptive information on the two components of 
the visitor visa program, as well as information to address evaluation questions relating to program 
relevance and performance. Documents reviewed included legislation, policy documents, process 
and procedure documents, operational manuals and bulletins.  
2.3.2. Key informant interviews 
Interviews with key informants were held to address all evaluation questions. Only one 
comprehensive interview guide was developed, as many interviewees had been involved in different 
components of the program, and could thus potentially respond to the full set of questions. The 
evaluation aimed to obtain perspectives from both sides of the spectrum – the facilitative and the 
protective one. A total of 31 interviews were completed, as follows: 
 CIC managers and officers at NHQ (n=15) 
 CIC managers and officers at selected missions (n=7) 
 Representatives from other federal departments, focused on protective aspects, such as 
partners participating in the policy working group and involved in screening activities (CBSA, 
RCMP) (n=4)  
 Representatives of partners and stakeholders with facilitative mandates, such as DFAIT, 
Industry Canada, and the Canadian Tourism Commission (n=5) 
Interviews lasted between 45 minutes and two hours. Not all informants responded to all 
questions; this was taken into account when analysing the data (Technical appendix). Where 
qualitative evidence is presented, the following scale was used to report:  
Interview data analysis scale 
All Findings reflect the views and opinions of 100% of the key informants in the group 
Majority/Most Findings reflect the views and opinions of at least 75% but less than 100% of key informants in 
the group 
Many Findings reflect the views and opinions of at least 50% but less than 75% of key informants in the 
group 
Some Findings reflect the views and opinions of at least 25% but less than 50% of key informants in the 
group 
A few Findings reflect the views and opinions of at least two respondents but less than 25% of key 
informants in the group 
2.3.3. Case studies 
Case studies provided a means of examining key visa requirement changes, as well as the 
implementation of these decisions. Two of the case study countries had a visa exemption removed 
and two had visa exemption granted in the period under review. The case study countries were as 
follows: 
 Czech Republic (2009 visa exemption removed) 
 
5 
 Mexico (2009 visa exemption removed) 
 Poland (2008 visa exemption granted) 
 Taiwan (2010 visa exemption granted) 
These case studies included a review of planning documents and interviews with key informants 
who had first-hand involvement with the development and/or implementation of these policy and 
implementation activities, such as processing and communications, especially as related to the 
Mexico case study. An assessment of administrative and operational data pertaining to the missions 
serving these countries was also conducted. For the Mexico case study, a field visit was conducted 
in September 2011 that included a site examination, as well as interviews with personnel located in 
the Mexico City mission and Visa Application Centre (VAC). While information on all case study 
countries is provided throughout the report, a separate report was developed for the Mexico case 
study as required by the PMEP. It is included in the Technical appendix.  
2.3.4. Administrative data analysis 
CIC has several information systems (CAIPS, GCMS and FOSS) that provide administrative data 
on the monitoring criteria and processing of visitor visa applications. The analysis of these data was 
a key source of information for program performance. Data was also provided by program delivery 
partners (e.g., the number and type of inadmissibility reports issued by CBSA) and other 
government departments and agencies (e.g., StatsCan data on the number and origin of travellers to 
Canada).  
2.3.5. Literature review 
Context review  
A review of literature discussing temporary resident migration management was conducted by the 
evaluation team to obtain perspectives and information regarding trends in the temporary 
movement to support the assessment of relevance. The literature reviewed focused on the need for 
border and entry control and for the facilitation of travel.  
Alternatives study 
As a means of obtaining an additional perspective on the relative merits of Canada’s approach to 
the management of temporary resident admissions, an external academic expert was commissioned 
to undertake a comparative study of the frameworks employed by Australia, the U.S., and the 
European Union. Key issues examined through the study related to the rationale for these different 
approaches, the contexts under which they were introduced, the strengths and weaknesses of these 
approaches with respect to balancing travel facilitation and security safeguarding, the impacts, and 
lessons learned to date. The report is provided in the Technical appendix, and includes a list of the 
literature and documents reviewed.  
  
 
6 
2.4. Limitations and considerations 
There were a number of limitations that should be considered in the context of this report. 
However, it is important to note that these limitations have not significantly influenced the 
findings, conclusions or recommendations in the evaluation.  
 Perspectives of affected country representatives: Given the sensitive nature of the visa 
requirement decisions, representatives of affected countries were not approached for 
comments. Their input could have been affected by the nature of the decision and it was 
deemed not appropriate for the analysis. To mitigate this, attention was paid to information 
about country reactions to visa requirement decisions coming from other sources (e.g., media, 
Canadian representatives abroad, and policymakers).  
 Perspectives of international partners: Given the difficulty in reaching international 
partners and the limited value of this perspective in informing the evaluation, interviews with 
international partners were omitted, in favour of the analysis of alternatives used in other 
countries. This allowed for a more in-depth and objective assessment of the effectiveness of 
various alternatives.  
 Process streamlining initiative results: At the time of data collection, CIC was introducing 
several initiatives intended to streamline visa processing (e.g.; Visa Application Centres, 
multiple-entry visas, long-duration visas). Because they had not been in place for a sufficient 
length of time, the evaluation was not able to assess their effectiveness.  
 
7 
3. Findings 
3.1. Relevance 
Using information from the document review, interviews, administrative data analysis, literature 
review, and case studies, this section presents the key findings regarding the relevance of the Visitor 
Visa Program. 
3.1.1. Continued need 
The objective of CIC’s Visitor Visa Program is to facilitate the movement of bona fide travellers 
while protecting the integrity of Canada’s immigration and asylum system, and the health, safety, 
and security of Canadians. The need to control and facilitate the temporary resident movement, 
and the need for the visitor visa as an instrument are reviewed in this section.  
Finding: There is a continued strong need to facilitate and control the movement of temporary 
residents. The visitor visa addresses this need and is used by Canada to leverage the benefits and 
decrease the risks associated with the temporary movement of foreign nationals to and from 
Canada.  
As noted in the literature, “global international migration has undergone a transformation in the 
last decade and one of the main elements in this has been the substantial increase in non-permanent 
… migration between nations.”5 In Canada, the number of visa applications (persons) has 
increased since 2007 (from 1,231,081 TRV applicants in 2007 to 1,367,831 in 2011, representing an 
11% increase). Furthermore, according to the United Nations World Tourism Organization, 
international tourist arrivals globally grew by over 4% in 2011 to 980 million, with growth expected 
to continue, on track to reach one billion tourists in 2012.6 This trend is linked to the development 
of means of transportation, communication technologies, increased knowledge of other countries, 
and the growth of social networks that extend beyond one’s own country/community.  
The document and literature review and almost all interview respondents indicated a strong need 
for Canada to continue to control the movement of temporary residents, including visitors, for 
several reasons: need for managed access to Canada; protection of the health, safety and security of 
Canadians; program integrity; and the facilitation of travel to leverage benefits.  
Manage access/control movement 
Historically, the ability to precisely define (and control) borders is one of the hallmarks of the 
modern state.7 Growing internationalization makes it harder to retain control over one’s borders 
and the policies enacted therein.8 In this vein, most interviewees confirmed that there is a need to 
manage access to Canada in order to ensure an orderly flow and that those who enter Canada meet 
the requirements of entry.  
Globally, visitor visas are an internationally accepted and prevalent practice. Each country 
determines who is allowed to enter and for how long. The EU’s Schengen Zone is the most 
noteworthy visa-free zone; however, even in the EU, while there is borderless travel within the 
                                                           
5 Circular migration, keeping development rolling. Graeme Hugo, University of Adelaide, IOM. 2008. 
6 media.unwto.org/en/press-release/2012-01-16/international-tourism-reach-one-billion-2012 
7 Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, 2010.  “Sovereignty.” plato.stanford.edu/entries/sovereignty/ 
8 Hall, Stuart et al., eds, 1996. Modernity: An Introduction to Modern Societies.  Maidenhead: Open University Press 
 
8 
zone, there are still visa requirements for countries to enter the external border of the EU. The 
prevalence of visa requirements around the globe suggests that Canada’s visitor visa tool, with its 
broad requirements and country exemptions, is aligned with those employed by other countries to 
achieve similar objectives.  
Some interviewees commented that the visa has been one of the few tools a country has to control 
access. The majority of interviewees described the need for the visitor visa mechanism as relating to 
the fact that it is more difficult to remove that individual if they do not abide by the terms and 
conditions of entry than to pre-emptively deny them entry. Even the interviewees who stressed the 
need to facilitate travel for economic purposes and other benefits affirmed the need for a 
mechanism, such as a visitor visa, to control against the risks associated with over-generous 
facilitation.  
Protection of the health, safety and security of Canadians  
The literature, documents and key informants frame the need to control the movement of 
temporary residents as a mechanism to protect the health, safety and security of Canada. Events 
such as Sept 11th, 2001, and major health disasters such as the SARS and the H1N1 pandemic, 
have contributed to migration policies becoming more concerned with heightened security, and 
global health issues. In particular, this need for control is similar to the rationale for controlling the 
admission of those who seek to become permanent residents of Canada. In both cases, the benefits 
of allowing people into the country (e.g., economic, intellectual, and cultural exchanges) need to be 
weighed against the risks presented by those seeking to enter the country (e.g., threats to the health, 
safety, and security of Canadian residents). The temporary resident visa aims to serve as an 
admissibility and screening tool that helps to ensure the balance of these factors.9 Furthermore, the 
majority of interviewees noted that threats from drug and human trafficking, terrorism, as well as 
potential criminal activities, result in a need to control who enters the country.  
Program integrity 
Internal CIC documents and many key informants clearly articulated a need to control temporary 
migration due to potential risks to program integrity, the most commonly cited threat being 
irregular migration. One of the key forms of irregular migration associated with temporary 
residents are overstays: the risk that temporary residents will not leave the country by the date 
specified by the border officer at the Port of Entry (POE) is a key concern. Additionally, 
unfounded refugee claims made by temporary residents are viewed as a significant problem in 
Canada, as they require resources that could be used for the processing of legitimate asylum 
claimants. The admission of visitors without appropriate documentation also constitutes a risk in 
terms of potential identity fraud. Similarly, people with prior criminal records and/or ties to 
criminal organizations pose a risk of engaging in similar activities in Canada; controlling the 
movement of temporary residents helps prevent inadmissible people from entering Canada, thus 
contributing to the integrity of Canada’s immigration system. In order to assess the bona fides of 
those seeking to enter Canada, officers in missions and Ports of Entry assess the backgrounds and 
travel documents of those people passing through inspection points.  
                                                           
9 Citizenship and Immigration Canada, n.d. “Overview of Canada’s Visa Policy and Visa Review Process.” Internal 
document. 
 
9 
Leveraging benefits 
In literature, benefits of facilitated travel were identified as economic (e.g., growth in tourism and 
trade), social (e.g., cultural exchanges and strengthened family linkages), political (e.g., 
improvements to diplomatic relations), or even as related to international security (e.g., increased 
collaboration in terms of information sharing and ongoing cooperation).  
Some interview respondents, particularly those who worked in fields related to international 
relations, trade, or tourism, stressed the need to facilitate the movement of temporary residents in 
order to access the benefits associated with international travel. These interviewees also saw the 
need to facilitate travel as being linked with improving international relations.  
3.1.2. Alignment with GoC and CIC objectives and outcomes 
To assess alignment of the Visitor Visa Program with GoC and CIC objectives, its objectives were 
compared with GoC Results for Canadians and the CIC’s strategic outcomes.  
Finding: The objectives of the visa policy framework are consistent with GoC and CIC priorities, 
objectives and outcomes. Under the revised CIC PAA, the alignment of the Visitor Visa Program 
under Strategic Outcome 4 (Promotion of Canadian interests and protecting the health, safety and 
security of Canada) obscures the dual nature of the Program’s objectives, which are intended to 
balance facilitation of travel and protection of the integrity of the immigration and refugee 
system. 
Alignment with GoC objectives and outcomes  
Overall, the visa policy program is largely aligned with all four of the Government of Canada’s 
outcome areas as defined in the Results for Canadians framework: economic affairs, social affairs, 
international affairs and government affairs. A review of the Program objectives– facilitation and 
protection - suggest that it supports the GoC objectives of economic and international affairs on 
the facilitation side, and the social and government affairs on the protection side (i.e. re-imposing 
visa requirements, security, health and criminality screening).  
Alignment with CIC outcomes  
The Visitor Visa Program is currently one of the elements under the departmental Strategic 
Outcome 4 of Managed migration that promotes Canadian interests and protects the health, safety and security of 
Canadians.  
In the revised CIC PAA (Technical appendix), which took effect in the beginning of the 2010-11 
fiscal year, the Visitor Visa Program is linked directly to Strategic Outcome 4 – Promotion of Canadian 
Interests and protecting the health, safety and security of Canada. This Strategic Outcome is not 
well-described to enable assessment of the alignment between the Visitor Visa Program objectives 
and this Strategic Outcome. In addition, the result 4.2 – Migration Control and Security Management, to 
which Visitor Visa Program contributes, states in its description that the TRV requirement is seen 
as Canada’s primary means of controlling migration and allows for the screening of individuals for health, safety and 
security risks before they begin travel to Canada. While the aim of the Visitor Visa Program is to balance the 
twin objectives of facilitation and integrity, the focus of result 4.2 is mainly on protection, with 
limited mention of facilitation.  
 
10 
The alignment of the visitor visa objectives with CIC’s program activity areas was more evident 
under the previous PAA structure (2005-2010), where it was located during most of the period 
under review, together with other temporary resident programs, under the previous Strategic 
Outcome 1 – Migration that significantly benefits Canada’s economic, social and cultural development, while 
protecting the health, safety and security of Canadians. The dual objectives of the Visitor Visa Program were 
directly aligned with the previous Strategic Outcome statement. Currently that link may not be as 
clear, although the Program does include facilitative elements, such as granting a visa exemption on 
a country, as well as the introduction of processing streamlining mechanisms.  
Lastly, the majority of interviewees held that Canada’s visitor visa policy objectives are broadly 
aligned with the Government of Canada and CIC’s objectives with respect to the facilitation of 
travel and ensuring protection. Some interviewees stated that this alignment is a matter of degree: 
that the objectives are aligned, but the magnitude of some of the potential consequences, such as 
decreased tourism to as a result of a visa imposition, is unintended. A few interviewees held that 
Canada is moving towards being able to achieve both objectives. Canada does not want to hinder 
investment or other opportunities, but this could occur following changes to visitor visa 
requirements.  
3.1.3. Alignment with roles and responsibilities  
This section reviewed the federal role vis-à-vis immigration as well as roles of federal departments 
involved in the visitor visa policymaking.  
Finding: With its specific dual mandate, CIC is the most appropriate federal department to design 
and implement Canada’s Visitor Visa Program even though there may be some overlap with the 
protection and facilitation mandates of other federal departments.  
Federal and provincial roles and responsibilities  
While immigration is a shared responsibility, defining immigration policies and processing 
temporary resident applications falls within the federal sphere. The federal government has the 
authority to make decisions regarding the admissibility of those who intend to enter Canada. 
Immigration agreements with provinces place some responsibilities on the federal government to 
consult with provincial governments when visitor visa applicants are coming to Canada for the 
purpose of receiving medical care, and when the applicant could potentially be medically 
inadmissible to Canada. Additionally, some federal-provincial collaboration occurs with regard to 
the promotion of provinces to potential visitors. In terms of policy-making and regulatory changes, 
provincial considerations are taken into account when assessing the impact of potential refugee 
claims on social and health systems. As with most immigration programs, provinces may be 
involved in applicant selection, however, admissibility screening remains a federal responsibility.  
Federal departments’ roles and responsibilities  
As defined in IRPA, the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration has the ultimate authority for the 
establishment of visa requirements. However, other departments and agencies have mandates that 
align to varying degrees with the Visitor Visa Program’s objectives of facilitating and securing 
foreign travellers’ access to Canada.  
A review of the mandates of CIC, Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) and the Department of 
Foreign Affairs and International Trade (DFAIT), and the opinions of most interviewees suggest 
 
11 
that the objectives of the Visitor Visa Program are most explicitly aligned with the mandate of CIC. 
These objectives (facilitation and protection) are not as directly aligned with the mandates of 
DFAIT or CBSA; DFAIT emphasis is on facilitation, while the CBSA focuses on the protection of 
Canada and Canadians.  
The majority of interviewees commented that the respective roles of these departments in support 
of the Visitor Visa Program were generally clear and appropriate. They are involved in discussions 
and consultations concerning country monitoring and country reviews, and are able to present their 
particular perspectives and interests in the visa decision process. However, some interviewees 
noted that the division of roles between CBSA and CIC may lack clarity, due to the fact that the two 
organizations both administer the same Act. They perceive CIC as the facilitators and CBSA as the 
enforcers, despite the fact that CIC also performs protection/security functions, and CBSA also 
performs facilitation functions.  
In terms of the implementation of the Visitor Visa Program, CIC’s role is aligned with its 
responsibilities, as outlined in IRPA. Visa officers screen foreign nationals and issue Temporary 
Resident Visas in compliance with IRPA and IRPR requirements. Other government departments 
participate in policy development and processing of TRV applications and include: DFAIT, CBSA, 
Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), and, if needed, the Canadian Security Intelligence Service 
(CSIS). In addition, DFAIT also plays a role vis-à-vis the implementation of the visa program as it 
provides information, services, and infrastructure to CIC’s immigration services overseas, and is 
involved in communications with country representatives and trade partners as part of its role in 
managing foreign relations.10 While CIC is the main author of visitor visa decision communication 
messages, DFAIT representatives are frequently the official spokespeople presenting these 
decisions.  
3.2. Performance – Policy  
CIC’s Admissibility Branch undertakes several activities when developing recommendations for 
the Minister regarding whether or not Canada should grant or remove a visa requirement (a visa 
policy decision). These activities include: the development and maintenance of a visa policy 
framework, ongoing monitoring for all countries and in-depth reviews for selected countries. This 
also involves bringing together multiple partners and stakeholders from within the Canadian 
federal government, and may involve seeking information from the governments of affected 
countries or other stakeholder groups. Through these processes, evidence is gathered in order to 
assess whether a change in the visitor visa requirement is required, and to support any subsequent 
decision. It should be noted that the final authority regarding changes to visa regulations rests with 
the Governor in Council, on the recommendation of the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and 
Multiculturalism.  
This section presents findings regarding the performance of the visitor visa policy component, and 
discusses the activities and achievements of the related immediate outcome.  
3.2.1. Visa policy framework  
CIC established its visa policy framework in 2005, which includes a set of main categories, criteria 
and thresholds. The evaluation assessed the criteria, indicators, and thresholds that were developed 
to support the country monitoring and review processes and development of recommendations.  
                                                           
10 Citizenship and Immigration Canada, 2010.  “Performance Measurement and Evaluatio n Plan: Regulations 
Amending the Immigration And Refugee Protection Regulations (Mexico).” Internal document.  
 
12 
Finding: CIC’s policy framework and monitoring and country review processes are viewed as 
adequate. The criteria and thresholds largely match international practices, although only select 
countries use refugee claim rates as an indicator to inform their visa changes. Some indicators of 
system integrity risks (such as overstays) are not currently included in the process due to lack of 
data collection systems. 
Appropriateness of visa policy framework design  
Before 2005, CIC did not have a formalized visa policy framework. CIC established its country 
monitoring criteria (visa policy framework), indicators and thresholds, to provide an objective 
framework for the assessment of country risks, and to support the development of evidence-based 
recommendations.  
The framework includes more than forty criteria grouped into seven categories: socio-economic 
indicators, immigration issues, travel documents, border management, safety and security issues, 
human rights, and bilateral cooperation on removals (Technical appendix). There are nine 
indicators known as threshold criteria, which are monitored on an ongoing basis. Three criteria are 
quantitative in nature, and are instrumental in determining whether further investigation of the 
country through the country review process is warranted. The quantitative threshold criteria consist 
of the following: TRV refusal rates; immigration violations;11 and the number of refugee claims 
made in Canada by foreign nationals. Other indicators with thresholds that are not quantitative but 
have defined parameters, include: passport security; passport production; the treatment of lost and 
stolen passports; national security; bilateral cooperation on removals; and bilateral cooperation on 
immigration integrity and law enforcement. 
Information for these indicators is drawn from a number of sources, including statistical reports, 
open source reports and media articles, and information provided by other departments and 
agencies, such as CBSA, DFAIT and the IRB. Once there is an indication that the country meets or 
exceeds the stated thresholds, it triggers internal discussion in the Admissibility Branch and at the 
senior management level; this may result in a full assessment through the country review process. 
This is an in-depth investigation of areas of concern or opportunities for a potential change in the 
country’s visa requirement. The criteria and thresholds contribute to the assessment of risks 
associated with specific countries, and thus guide the decision to recommend granting or removing 
a visa exemption for nationals of those countries.  
The media review indicated that at the time of introduction of the framework, the affected country 
representatives appreciated the existence of the framework as it provided them with a set of 
objective criteria and an understanding of where they need to make changes to increase the 
potential of visa removal for their countries. Most of the interviewees agreed that the indicators and 
thresholds are appropriate and very comprehensive. The framework provides a good tool to assess 
various countries using the same criteria and thus allows for a consistent, comparable, and holistic 
assessment.  
While some interviewees commented that the framework is too extensive, others mentioned a 
number of additional indicators that could be useful in the monitoring framework. For example: 
                                                           
11 This threshold refers to all documented cases of non-compliance with requirements of the Immigration and Refugee 
Protection Act.  This incorporates all reports of non-compliance prepared under Section 44 of the IRPA.  It also takes 
into account all instances in which foreign nationals are determined to be inadmissible to Canada at a port of entry and 
allowed to voluntarily return to their country of origin. 
 
13 
measuring overstays, working illegally, or rates of permanent resident applications filed within 
Canada after being admitted as visitor, could be effective indicators of irregular migration. 
Currently, these indicators are not collected due to the absence of control systems for tracking 
purposes.  
Some interviewees noted that CIC’s current targets and thresholds do not measure all push and pull 
factors that affect the temporary movement to Canada, such as the features of the Canadian asylum 
system which were frequently mentioned as the most generous in the world. In addition, the visa 
policy framework does not include a detailed assessment of internal Canadian concerns, such as the 
potential effect of a visa requirement change on the volume of trade, or implications for the 
Canadian economy, cultural, or social context. Those are assessed, to some degree, as part of the 
consultative decision-making process in cooperation with Canadian partners. 
Consistency with international practices 
A comparison of the Five Country Conference members12 and the EU suggests that Canada’s 
framework is very comprehensive, and includes almost all criteria used by other countries. Some 
differences include: Canada and Australia are the only countries reviewed that use asylum claims 
directly as an indicator. While some other countries assess economic, cultural, and 
social/reputational impacts related to potential visa imposition in their review process, Canada 
takes these impacts into account through consultation with partners and the regulatory process.  
3.2.2. Country monitoring  
The established framework is used to conduct ongoing country monitoring and guides the country 
review process for selected cases. To assess appropriateness of country monitoring, the evaluation 
looked at ongoing monitoring and country review process.  
Appropriateness of ongoing monitoring  
The ongoing monitoring conducted by the Admissibility Branch examines the key indicators 
through which country risks are measured. This monitoring is facilitated by a variety of 
administrative data that are collected from CIC databases and other government department 
(OGD) systems. Monitoring data are collected and updated regularly, which allows for the rapid 
assessment of emergent issues for specific countries with respect to the quantitative thresholds. 
CIC’s Admissibility Branch maintains a database that tracks the status of quantitative threshold 
indicator information. Other monitoring activities include the regular review of domestic and 
international media articles, and input from security or international partners. CBSA maintains and 
provides data on immigration violation rates that is shared with CIC. Statistics Canada tourism 
volumes are also used to compare data collected internally to the total number of travellers from a 
given country. Collectively, this data is used to inform the need for further investigation through 
the country review process.  
Overall, many interviewees felt that CIC’s ongoing monitoring was adequate. While CIC regularly 
receives data from its security partners, interviewees noted that, as a result of the separation of 
CBSA and CIC in 2003, CIC must rely on partners for a great deal of information. The 
effectiveness of this information-sharing relies on working relationships that are built between 
partners. Some interviewees note that, at times, good information-sharing exists between partners, 
but it might not always be as proactive as it could be.  
                                                           
12 Canada, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, and the United Kingdom. 
 
14 
Appropriateness of country review  
 Country reviews can be carried out for a number of reasons. Some of these reasons include:  
 When either the grant or removal of a visitor visa exemption is under consideration;  
 A change in the thresholds as identified through ongoing monitoring, including changes in 
patterns of immigration violations or in–Canada asylum refugee claim rates; 
 An identified change in country conditions, including changes in organized crime, a country’s 
security situation, or national security concerns; 
 An identified change in document security, integrity or misuse of documents; 
 A request from a foreign government received via the Department of Foreign Affairs and 
International Trade (DFAIT) or another department. 
Country review reports are developed to support recommendations and the development of 
regulations. There is no established schedule for country reviews. Unlike the process in the U.S., 
which is embedded in legislation and requires a country review of visa-exempt countries every two 
years, Canada’s visa review schedules are based on ongoing monitoring and employ a flexible, 
risk-based country review schedule. In interviews, most of the stakeholders mentioned that this 
approach is more adaptable, focused, and efficient than the U.S. process.  
A country review consists of an assessment of all or a majority of indicators under the seven 
criteria. A document review is carried out using information obtained from various sources, as per 
the ongoing country monitoring process described above. When considering granting a visa 
exemption, a technical visit to a country under consideration may be undertaken; however, this is 
not typically conducted in advance of removing a visa exemption. Technical Visit Delegations are 
working groups sent to specific countries to conduct technical visits. These delegations, which seek 
to resolve specific information gaps and issues of concern, bring together, on the Canadian side, 
those equipped to ask probing questions and assess local conditions and, on the host country side, 
those officials who can answer questions and address issues. Canadian delegation members are 
typically drawn from groups within CIC, anti-counterfeiting officers from within the RCMP, 
members of Public Safety Canada, and representatives from Canada’s relevant embassies, 
consulates, and/or high commissions. These visits are performed to confirm existing information 
and/or to close information gaps, and would include, for example, visiting passport production 
centres to validate the security of passport production and distribution. These visits were perceived 
by some interviewees as helpful in creating contacts with government representatives of the 
affected countries, and providing an opportunity to not only gather data but explain the criteria and 
the rationale for the potential change.  
A review of the country reports for each case study country revealed that quantitative indicator 
information was available in all of the cases, while qualitative indicator information was limited. It 
was not clear whether this lack of qualitative indicator data suggests that a judgement was made 
regarding the usefulness/quality of the data, or whether there was an inability to collect desired 
information.  
Some interview respondents noted that CIC always looks at the same issues consistently for all 
countries, which was viewed as positive. They noted that evidence is not always weighed equally in 
the country review process (i.e., some indicators are more significant in certain countries); a feature 
that allows for more flexibility and is inherent in the review framework.  
 
15 
3.2.3. Partner consultations  
While CIC is the federal government department responsible for developing visitor visa policy, 
consultations with internal, external and international partners take place to support the 
recommendations. This section examines to what extent those consultations are adequate.  
Finding: CIC engages appropriate partners and there is adequate collaboration to inform visa 
recommendations; some OGDs feel that they are not engaged early enough in the process or that 
their views have not always been reflected in the final decision.  
Mechanisms for partner engagement  
Internally, within CIC two main branches are involved:  
 Admissibility Branch has overall responsibility for visitor visa policy development, including 
consultations with partners;  
 International Region is responsible for processing visitor visa applications and is consulted 
on visa-related policy issues.  
Other internal CIC units play a supporting role in terms of consultations, and the provision of 
information or advice. Other external partners involved in policymaking include DFAIT, the 
Department of Public Safety (PS), the CBSA, RCMP, and CSIS, and may, when relevant, included 
others such as Agriculture and Agri-Food Canada (AAFC), the Department of Justice Canada 
(DoJ), Industry Canada (IC), and Transport Canada (TC). International stakeholders participate in 
the discussions on the development of visa policies, or are interested in decisions on changes in visa 
requirements. 
The work of CIC in reviewing country conditions and generating recommendations regarding visa 
requirements is facilitated by several working groups. The domestic working groups involve 
relevant branches within CIC and OGDs mentioned above. Some examples of Canada’s 
international engagement include the Canada-United States Visa Policy Working Group (VPWG), 
which hold regular consultations, exchange information, and share best practices with regard to 
visa, admissibility, and screening policies; and the Canada-Czech Expert Working Group, which 
was set up to discuss visa issues and conditions following the decision to remove the visa 
exemption for the Czech Republic in 2009. 
Effectiveness of partner engagement 
Analysis of the engagement mechanisms and the range of stakeholders involved indicates that 
appropriate partners are included in consultations that support the development of visa policy and 
recommendations. Stakeholders included in this process represent both sides of the visa 
continuum; those that focus on the facilitation of travel and those that focus on the 
security/protection of Canadians. The majority of interviewees (both CIC and OGDs) felt that the 
mechanisms through which CIC engages and collaborates with program partners and stakeholders 
to inform visa recommendations are generally sufficient. It is important to note that many OGD 
interviewees commented that the majority of engagement has been ad hoc (they are involved only 
when a visa policy recommendation is moving forward or when information is needed) and that 
they are not engaged as early in the process as they would like. The reason for this lack of early 
engagement, as reported by some CIC interviewees, is the difficulty in managing the engagement 
process within the short timeframes that accompany visa recommendations, and the level of 
 
16 
sensitivity surrounding proposals. Because visa policy decisions are secret and are developed closely 
with partners, CIC only brings key internal stakeholders in at the start and eventually expands 
consultations outwards.  
Many OGD interviewees stated that while they are engaged in the discussions to inform visa 
recommendations, they felt that their stance was often not reflected in the final decision. There is a 
lot of consultation, but the perception was that there is a need for further integration – a 
whole-of-government approach. It was perceived that the role of OGDs in an integrated visa 
policy remains an idea, not a reality. Interviewees at CIC commented that, while partners may feel 
they are not sufficiently included, from a departmental perspective, their input is sought as needed.  
3.2.4. Visa policy recommendations 
The immediate outcome of the visa policy development, monitoring and consultations result in 
recommendations that are to be evidence-based, risks based and consultative. This section 
examines the extent to which this is achieved.  
As a result of the country review process and consultations with stakeholders, as described in the 
previous section, a recommendation may be made to the Minister of Citizenship, Immigration and 
Multiculturalism, who would make the final decision. This recommendation would be to: 
 Maintain the status quo;  
 Remove the visa exemption for nationals from that country; or  
 Grant a visa exemption.  
There may also be further recommendations on the conditions imposed or actions taken, to better 
balance the desire to facilitate the entry of bona fide travellers to Canada with the need to ensure the 
health, safety, and security of Canadians. These could include: 
 Continued monitoring of a country’s conditions; 
 Implementing a public awareness campaign regarding the reviewed country; 
 Assigning a CBSA Liaison Officer to the country; and/or 
 Granting a visa exemption to particular nationals that possess specific types of travel 
documents.13  
Overall, the process of developing recommendations and changing regulations can be lengthy for a 
number of reasons: the conditions are monitored to assess longer-term trends, each individual 
change must be accompanied by appropriate regulatory documents, and there exists a necessity to 
manage relations with the affected country.  
                                                           
13 Government of Canada, 2008. Canada Gazette, vol. 142, no. 26 – December 24, 2008. “Regulations Amending the 
Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (Visa exemption requirements for Lithuania and Poland).” 
gazette.gc.ca/rp-pr/p2/2008/2008-12-24/html/sor-dors308-eng.html 
 
17 
Finding: Monitoring and evidence from country reviews are regularly used to support visa policy 
recommendations and the regulatory process. However, evidence is ultimately weighed and other 
internal and external factors play a part in the final decision to impose or lift a visa.  
Evidence-based, risk-based and consultative recommendations 
A review of documents for the four case study countries indicates that recommendations appeared 
to be informed by the evidence collected through monitoring and country review processes. Many 
interviewees also confirmed that information collected from country review and monitoring 
processes is used to support visa requirement recommendations.  
While the evidence is always taken into account, the information/evidence is ultimately weighed 
and a holistic assessment is used, rather than focusing on one factor that may be not in line with 
thresholds. The use of evidence is particularly noticeable in cases of removing the visa exemptions, 
with Mexico and Czech Republic having significantly surpassed key risk thresholds. In case of 
Poland, the decision was to grant an exemption, even though the country surpassed at least one of 
the thresholds (10% refusal rate) and there were concerns related to passport security. The passport 
risks were subsequently addressed with the additional e-passport requirement regulation.  
Some interviewees held that, in some cases, evidence from monitoring and country reviews may be 
used to support country-level visa requirement changes that had already been considered as a result 
of other pressures/political considerations. Even in those cases, country reviews were conducted 
and evidence was gathered to support the decision by providing a risk assessment.  
Many interviewees suggested that other factors come to bear on the final decision to remove a visa 
exemption or grant a visa exemption by the Cabinet and the decision to change a visa requirement 
is also strongly informed by GOC interests and priorities. The final decision is seen as a question of 
the right balance and the right timing. In the cases of Taiwan and Mexico, evidence in support of 
the visa exemption and the removal of the visa exemption existed for several years before the actual 
change was made. In the case of Hungary, where asylum claims rates have surpassed the threshold 
for several years, the recommendation to re-impose a visa is not being addressed. This suggests that 
the decision to grant an exemption or re-impose a visa is carefully considered within a context of 
other national and international factors.  
Regulatory processes  
After the recommendation is approved by the Minister, a regulatory change to section 190 of the 
IRPR is required. This must be accompanied by a Regulatory Impact Assessment Statement (RIAS) 
prepared by the Regulatory Affairs Unit at CIC. The RIAS explains the background and the 
rationale for a decision, as well as the alternatives, provides a cost and benefit analysis, details the 
consultative process that informed the decision, describes the compliance and enforcement 
required, and explains what the impacts of the decision could be, and the risks and benefits of the 
regulatory change. The evaluation examined RIASs prepared for each case study to assess the use 
of evidence to support the regulatory change. An analysis of RIASs for the four case study 
countries confirm that the information contained within the RIASs was largely informed by the 
evidence gathered though monitoring and country reviews.  
One of the weaknesses of RIAS documents is the cost-benefit analysis section. While the section 
addresses additional impacts to Canada, such as the impact on the Canadian economy, social 
assistance costs, or costs that will be incurred by other federal departments, most of the analysis is 
 
18 
fairly qualitative and does not provide a quantitative assessment of these impacts (Technical 
appendix). While there may be challenges in assessing the cost/value of some of the elements, such 
as deterrence of irregular migration, other elements, such as aggregated cost to the asylum claim 
processing, or the loss to economy may be easier to assess using quantitative estimates. The 
intention of the cost-benefit analysis as per the Canadian Cost-Benefit Analysis Guide for 
Regulatory Proposals (TBS, 2007) is to quantify both the costs and benefits of the regulatory 
change, the current method, which focuses largely on qualitative descriptors, reduces the strength 
of the evidence.  
3.3. Performance – Implementation  
The responsibility for processing visitor visas lies with CIC’s Operations Sector, which is divided 
into domestic and overseas operations. Overseas operations fall under the responsibility of the 
International Region and its network of visa offices abroad. Processing of visitor visas takes place at 
Canadian visa offices overseas;14 only visitor visa extensions are processed in Canada. Visa offices 
are usually located within a Canadian mission (e.g., embassies, high commissions).  
Administrative services are shared with DFAIT under the terms of a Memorandum of 
Understanding, whereby CIC transfers resources to DFAIT to secure accommodation and some 
administrative support. Some visa offices offer a full range of processing, while others offer limited 
processing services (for example only permanent or temporary resident applications). The office 
may cover one or more countries. In large countries like China, India and the U.S., the volume of 
applications is such that there is more than one office to serve each country. Applications from 
clients must be directed to the office in their country of permanent residence or in a country to 
which they were lawfully admitted.  
CIC processing of TRVs is guided by the Operations Manual (OP 11). According to the Manual, 
temporary resident applications will be given as much priority as possible within the restraints imposed by other 
processing priorities at the visa office. All applications are reviewed and decided on a case-by-case basis. 
The applicant is required to satisfy the visa officer that their visit to Canada is temporary, they will 
not overstay their approved time in Canada, they hold a passport or travel document, have 
sufficient financial means to support their stay in Canada, are in good health, do not have a criminal 
record, and that they are not a security risk to Canadians.  
Each application for a visitor visa is processed abroad, but each person is also examined, to various 
degrees, at the port of entry by the border officer. The foreign nationals must satisfy the border 
officer that they have both the ability and the willingness to leave Canada at the end of the period 
for which they are authorized to remain in Canada and that they will not engage in activities that are 
not authorized by the visitor visa – i.e., work, study, or apply for permanent residency from within 
Canada.  
                                                           
14 There are three categories of visa offices or missions abroad: regional program centres (RPCs), full -service centres, 
and satellites and specialized offices. RPCs and full-service centres both deliver the full range of immigration services 
for the countries they serve, but RPCs also oversee satellite offices. The full range of immigration services includes the 
processing of permanent and temporary resident applications as well as other immigration applications, such as 
requests for travel documents or temporary resident permits. Satellites and specialized program offices do not deliver 
the full range of immigration services.   
 
19 
3.3.1. Processing  
To facilitate the flow of temporary residents, visa offices need to meet the demand for TRVs. The 
following section describes the performance of the Program as it relates to the processing of visitor 
visas. This includes a description of trends in demand, visitor visa processing trends and ability to 
align capacity with fluctuations in demand and visa policy changes. 
Finding: CIC has been able to meet the processing demand for TRVs to date with some extension of 
time required to process applications. While CIC has the capacity to address seasonal fluctuations, 
addressing major regulatory changes requires additional resources. Recent streamlining initiatives 
show some positive effects on processing activities; however, it is too early to assess their 
long-term impact.  
Demand for temporary resident visas  
The following section demonstrates that the overall number of TRV applications has increased 
since 2006, although these increases are more apparent in certain regions, and that travel patterns 
fluctuate seasonally. As a result of this demand and fluctuations, the impetus is placed on CIC to 
find ways to meet this demand by taking into account travel patterns and leverage the benefits 
(economic, social, etc.) associated with temporary travel to Canada. 
Demand for TRVs can fluctuate in response to changes in economic conditions, regional and 
seasonal travel patterns, and changes to visa requirements. The number of applications for 
temporary resident visas remained fairly stable from 2006 to 2010, with a slight dip in 2008 and 
2009, presumably as a result of the economic recession (see Figure 3-1). In 2010, there was an 
increase in the number of visa applications (by approximately 130,000 applications) compared to 
the previous year. Fifty percent of this increase was the result of the removal of the visa exemption 
on nationals of Mexico in mid-2009.  
Additionally, an analysis of the data shows that, in general, there are different trends in the demand 
for TRV applications per region over the years under review. As shown in Figure 3-1, the number 
of applications received in the Americas Region recently surpassed the number from Asia and 
Pacific. While applications received by European offices decreased, there was a slight increase in 
applications received from African and Middle Eastern countries.  
Figure 3-1: Applications received by region (2006-1010) 
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
300,000
350,000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Asia & Pacific Americas Europe Africa and Middle East Source: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
 
20 
While the overall number of applications remains relatively stable, the rate of change in the number 
of applications received for particular missions has been quite high.  
In addition to changes by region and by mission, travel patterns fluctuate seasonally with a higher 
number of travellers in the summer months. This pattern is consistent across all regions (see Figure 
3-2).  
Figure 3-2: Application patterns within a year 
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
140,000
Oct/
2010
Nov/
2010
Dec/
2010
Jan/
2011
Feb/
2011
Mar/
2011
Apr/
2011
May/
2011
Jun/
2011
Jul/
2011
Aug/
2011
Sep/
2011
Africa and Middle East 
Asia & Pacific
Europe
Americas
Source: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
Ability to meet TRV demand 
In order to assess CIC’s ability to meet the demand for TRV applications, the evaluation examined 
TRV processing statistics and CIC resource capacity. 
Processing rates: As shown in Figure 3-3, which compares the number of applications processed to 
the number of applications received, a large majority of applications are processed to completion; 
however, there has been a slight decline in processing rates in 2009 and 2010; 98% of files were 
processed in 2007 compared to 95% in 2010. The percentage of unprocessed applications relates 
mostly to the fact that applications received at the end of the year may only be processed in the 
following year.  
Figure 3-3: Applications received and processed, by year 
0
200,000
400,000
600,000
800,000
1,000,000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Applications received Applications processed 
Source: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
 
21 
Processing times: In order to meet the demand in applications and provide good service to 
clients, TRVs should be processed in a timely manner. From 2006 to 2010 processing times (for 
80% of cases) have increased from 7 to 14 days, overall, and in almost all regions (see Table 3-1). 
An analysis of processing times for the 65 offices that existed between 2006 and 2010 shows that:  
 Processing times increased in almost 50% of the offices, decreased in 14%, and remained the 
same in 38%;  
 The highest increases in processing times were in Islamabad (from 14 days to 56), Tehran (from 
28 to 42 days), Abidjan (from 7 to 21 days);  
 The largest decreases in processing times were in Warsaw (from 7 days to same-day processing 
due to the granting of the visa exemption), Guatemala (from 14 to 7 day processing), Harare 
(from 42 days to same-day processing), and Chandigarh (from 28 to 14 days);  
 In 2006 there were 15 (22%) offices that processed applications within one day; this number 
decreased to 9 (14%) in 2008, where it remained for the rest of the period under review.  
Processing times are influenced by the number of applications received, the level of effort to 
process visa applications in certain areas and whether additional health or security screening is 
undertaken. Some interviewees suggested that one of the reasons for longer processing times 
relates to the time it takes for CIC’s partners to perform security and health checks.  
Table 3-1: Trends in temporary resident visa processing, 2006-2010 (averages) 
Region 
Application 
received Approved Refused
Total/
Total 
finalized 
Approval 
rate
TRVs 
issued
80% of cases 
finalized 
within X  Days
Asia & Pacific 300,340 233,575 63,272 296,847 79% 233,575 Steady, at 7 days
Africa and Middle East 104,609 69,435 30,628 100,063 70% 69,435
Increased, from 
14 to 21 days
Europe 110,127 90,346 17,492 107,838 84% 90,346
Increased, from 
7 to 14 days
Americas 282,286 235,365 41,038 276,404 85% 235,365
Increased, from 
7 to 14 days
Total points of 
service 803,605 629,683 152,437 782,120 80% 629,683
Increased, from 
7 to 14 days 
Source: OPS-Statistics, CIC
 
An overall examination of the two indicators mentioned above (processing rates and time) suggests 
that CIC is meeting the demand in TRV applications. As previously noted, some trends in TRV 
processing indicate that CIC’s performance has declined slightly over the last five years (i.e. 
increased processing times, decreased processing rates). Some interviewees suggested that while 
CIC manages to meet the demand, at some point CIC will not be able to cope with processing more 
TRVs without increasing resources or compromising security/program integrity, due to 
insufficient human resources issues.  
Capacity to process TRVs 
In total, the number of visa offices that process applications has remained fairly constant (68 offices 
in 2006 and 65 in 2010)15. Visa offices generally consist of an Immigration Program Manager (IPM), 
one to two Deputy IPM/Operations Managers, and several Canada-Based Officers (CBOs). There 
                                                           
15 After office closures in 2012, the number of offices is currently 56. 
 
22 
are also Locally Engaged Program Officers (LEPs), Locally Engaged Staff (LESs) and local 
administrative staff. Circa 2011, there were approximately 340 CBOs and 1,320 locally-engaged 
staff working for the immigration program abroad (including those performing CIC and CBSA 
related tasks). There are significant variations in terms of how many countries and people each of 
the visa offices include. For instance, the mission in Singapore is responsible for a territory that 
covers 600 million people in 10 countries and is staffed with eight CBOs and 28 LESs. The biggest 
mission, in New Delhi, has 150 staff, including 28 CBOs.  
To assess CIC’s capacity to process TRV applications, the evaluation examined the level of 
operational support provided by CIC; whether CIC has the HR capacity to adjust to meet visitor 
visa demand fluctuation. 
 Operational support: Materials are available to inform staff about operational procedures, policy 
changes, and any other form of change occurring in the IR network. Ongoing support is provided 
by NHQ and bulletins are published throughout the network to ensure that staff are aware of any 
changes. Recent initiatives include the Wiki page for international staff, which includes a section on 
questions and best practices. Recent audits (2008, 2009, 2010, 2011) of visa programs in nine 
missions suggest that the decisions are made by the appropriate level of staff and that staff followed 
the required procedures.  
Overall ability to adjust TRV workload: The first concern mentioned by CIC interviewees was 
workload pressures related to TRV processing. In particular, because visa processing units are 
staffed based on permanent resident applications processing levels, TRVs are treated as a lesser 
priority. The focus is to ensure that the processing of permanent resident applications allows CIC 
to meet the stated permanent immigration targets. There are no targets associated with TRVs. Due 
to the fact that staffing is done through an interdepartmental committee for overseas staff, creating 
one position in the field takes about one year. This results in a lack of flexibility or responsiveness as 
it is a cumbersome process to reassign permanent staff to missions and even more difficult to add 
a position. Instead, resources are shifted between permanent and temporary processing and other 
strategies are used to address workload challenges. In internal CIC reports for 2010, difficulty with 
processing due to increased demand was mentioned by managers of almost all missions.  
Ability to meet TRV demands due to annual/seasonal fluctuations: The majority of 
interviewees commented that while there are some challenges, overall, CIC has the ability to meet 
visa processing demands due to annual/seasonal fluctuations. In general, January to September is 
considered temporary season; students are also included in this group because they have to get their 
visas in the spring in order to attend school. When the demand for temporary resident visas 
increases in the spring and summer, mission resources are shifted from processing PR applications 
to TRVs. In general, many missions focus on processing permanent resident applications in the low 
season (winter, early spring).  
Ability to meet TRV demand due to changes to visa regulations: Respondents were divided 
when asked whether CIC has the ability to meet visa processing demands due to changes in visa 
regulations. Many interviewwws noted that the sufficiency in resources to meet the new demand 
relating to a visa imposition depends on the country on which it was imposed (size, yearly number 
of travellers to Canada, etc.). While the majority believe that Mexico received sufficient resources, 
this is not always the case. An examination of the Mexico and Czech Republic case studies show 
that while there were some initial challenges, sufficient resources were provided to address the 
demand. 
 
23 
 Mexico: Prior to the removal of the visa exemption, there was one immigration program 
manager, two visa officers, a migration anti-fraud officer and some locally engaged staff 
working in the immigration section of the mission in Mexico. During this period, the majority 
of processing work related to permanent resident applications, study and work permits. 
According to interviewees, after the removal of the visa exemption, the office increased its 
number of staff to approximately 70 people almost overnight. In the year since the imposition, 
there were more than 100 temporary duty (TD) officers that operated in the Mexico office; the 
cycle of officers coming to Mexico was between one to three months each, from the date the 
visa exemption was removed until about September 2010. Because the majority of processing 
officers sent from Canada for the first year were TD officers, some interviewees said that the 
high turnover made it more difficult to manage. After the first year, the office became more 
stable with a steady team of people, receiving officers who will likely remain in the office for 2-3 
years, who can understand Spanish, and who had the time to understand the socio-economic 
situation in Mexico and apply this to their work. As illustrated in Figure 3-4, below, the mission 
in Mexico processed almost all applications received within the first two years of the visa 
change. 
Figure 3-4: Mexico: applications received vs. applications processed 
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
2009 2010
Applications received Total processedSource: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
 Czech Republic: In the case of the Czech Republic, processing was delegated to CIC’s Vienna, 
Austria office. Recognizing that it would be a significant change for Czech nationals to have to 
apply for a visa in another country, various avenues were created to submit applications. 
However, in order to be more responsive to concerns raised by Czech nationals, CIC 
introduced a two-person office in Prague (1 CBO and 1 LES). While the Vienna office could 
have handled Czech applications, the Prague office was necessary to improve client service and 
Canada’s reputation. In 2010, the mission in Czech Republic processed 99.3% of all the 
applications received.16  
  
                                                           
16 2009 data for the Czech nationals was not available, as applications were processed by the Vienna mission (data is 
available by mission rather than nationality). 
 
24 
Main mitigation strategies to address capacity challenges 
As previously noted, there are challenges in managing TRV resources because missions are funded 
based on their permanent workload and because TRV demand fluctuates. Therefore, CIC employs 
a number of different strategies to mitigate capacity challenges, such as Temporary Duty (TD) 
arrangements, and introducing streamlining processes; such as VACs, and multiple entry and 
longer term visas. 
Temporary Duty: CIC relies on TD officers to mitigate capacity challenges in missions due to 
annual/seasonal demand, visa requirement changes and other factors. TD officers are staff with 
several years’ experience working at CIC, who receive theoretical and practical training on 
processing immigration applications. These individuals are assigned to process applications to 
relieve officers during the busy season, or to replace those on leave. While the TD officer is 
intended to assist with processing, this practice has other positive effects, such allowing the TD 
officer, who may have a substantive position in the policy sector, to bring back to their branch their 
experience learned working in an operational environment. This should help inform future policy 
work. Over the last few years, the overall number of TD assignments (for TR, PR, etc.) has 
increased from 133 in 2007 to 341 in 2010 and number of work weeks from 723 to 1740 with a 
minimum of 30% of those allocated to processing temporary applications.  
Streamlining processes  
Visa Application Centre (VAC): VACs are independent service providers and international 
organizations that are operated on a user-pay basis by third-party service providers, and that charge 
user fees (at levels set by the service provided and agreed by CIC) to assist clients with the visa 
application process. Canada is currently served by 60 VACs in 41 countries. VACs have two main 
objectives: to facilitate in-person assistance for clients and to support the ability of CIC to meet the 
demand for TRVs. This section focuses on the use of VACs to support demand/capacity 
challenges within missions (the facilitation objective will be discussed in the section on facilitation). 
In its support role to CIC, VACs are intended to improve missions’ processing capacity by 
providing administrative support services to applicants. VAC staff are strictly prohibited from 
providing evaluative advice or consultancy and play no role in the decision-making process. In 
Beijing and Mexico, VACs have the ability to scan applications with 2D barcodes, which is 
uploaded to the system in Ottawa, validated, and provided to mission through GCMS to facilitate 
processing of applications. While definitive, quantitative information on their success was not 
available for the evaluation, based on the interviews from the mission in Mexico, the VAC has had 
a positive impact on addressing demand and capacity challenges. In particular, staff at the Mexico 
mission mentioned that VAC contributes to the completeness of application packages, which 
reduces the rejection rate for incomplete/incorrect forms. This provides staff with time to 
concentrate on assessing complete applications. While staff positively assessed the impact of the 
VAC on operations, an internal review of the Mexico VAC files for July/August 2010, in which 
1,000 applications were reviewed, indicated that the applications received from VAC in Mexico had 
a 78% error rate, and 43% of these applications were incomplete. However, corrective measures 
were taken by mission staff to provide feedback to VACs on the most frequent mistakes and 
subsequently the error rates has significantly reduced. This underlines the importance of regular 
feedback and communication between the visa offices and VACs. .  
  
 
25 
Other Changes: There are other mechanisms being introduced that are intended to improved 
CIC’s processing capacity and efficiency. Examples include: long-term and multiple-entry visas, 
which aims to decrease the number of transactions with clients; e-applications (2D barcodes); and 
the introduction of a new system to collect data on applications, Global Case Management System 
(GCMS), which includes features such as uploadable information and group processing. While the 
missions expressed some concerns that GCMS added processing time, particularly during the file 
creation process, during the Mexico site visit interviewees commented positively about the initial 
impacts of these mechanisms, however, the longer term impact will have to be assessed when more 
information is available. 
3.3.2. Communications 
There are three main communication activities related to visitor visas: communicating application 
requirements to potential TRV clients, communications related to changes in visa regulations, and 
communications related to sensitive TRV cases. As it was not possible to locate temporary visitor 
applicants (due to privacy and cost issues), the evaluation could not gather their direct assessment 
of the impact of communication activities; therefore, this section relies on qualitative assessment of 
the breadth and depth of communication efforts.  
Finding: The timeliness and breadth of CIC’s communication strategies related to immigration are 
reasonable and address a variety of potential client’ information needs. As materials supporting 
decisions on changes to visa requirements are subject to Cabinet confidence, CIC faces 
communication constraints related to the timing of information being released to partners, 
stakeholders and to the public.  
Communication: visitor visa application requirements 
To assess regular communications, the evaluation conducted interviews, a document review, and a 
review of the information available on-line to assess the comprehensiveness and breadth of the 
information provided. The evaluation found that information regarding temporary resident visas is 
readily available online and the CIC website appears comprehensive and provides information that 
may be helpful to those who have access to the internet. In particular, CIC’s website provides 
information for potential clients on current visa requirements, as well as any changes introduced.17 
This information includes links to application forms and guides, TRV exemptions, processing 
times, and means of extending one’s stay in Canada. Additional information is contained on 
mission specific websites, including information on temporary travel requirements. Missions 
provide information in English and French but also sometimes in local languages. These websites 
have a common look and feel and the information provided is almost identical. One issue noted in 
some interviews was that some complaints were received from clients in Mexico about TRV forms 
only being available in English and French, which made them difficult for clients to complete.  
Communicating changes regarding visitor visas regulations 
Information about proposed regulatory changes to visa requirements is made available through the 
Canada Gazette. Key stakeholder groups within Canada, such as provincial and territorial ministries 
of immigration, as well as the Canadian Council for Refugees, are subsequently provided notice of 
                                                           
17 See, for example, www.cic.gc.ca/english/visit/index.asp and 
www.canadainternational.gc.ca/mexico-mexique/visas/index.aspx?lang=eng&menu_id=5. Note that mission 
websites are provided by the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade.  
 
26 
these changes by a departmental spokesperson. Communications are also undertaken for the 
benefit of the Canadian public – both the general public and those who may have business or family 
ties to the affected country. These communications include an explanation of the rationale for the 
decision. In addition to these governmental channels, news of visa requirement changes is often 
disseminated through Canadian media, whose reporting of the changes may include reference to 
prepared communications materials and/or comments from departmental spokespeople. The level 
of public notification with respect to visa requirement changes is lower than for other forms of 
regulatory change, as the visa policy process itself is sensitive owing to the national and 
international information involved.  
Timing of visa requirement change communication 
Due to the sensitive nature of decisions to remove a visa exemption, they are communicated at the 
last possible moment to prevent a surge in travel (and, potentially, in-Canada asylum claims) by 
citizens of affected countries. Communication materials are prepared well in advance of the 
announcement. Because visa requirement changes come into effect very shortly after their public 
announcement, these requirements must be communicated swiftly to reduce the risk of traveller 
confusion abroad. Nevertheless, according to some interviewees, because of the short notice of 
these types of changes, travellers who are travelling the day of, or shortly after, the announcement 
can face difficulties getting their visas in time for the travel. It should be mentioned that CIC usually 
allows a grace period of a few days for these circumstances. 
A review of documents and interviews pertaining to the Mexico and Taiwan visa decisions show 
that there is an approach to consult with affected international stakeholders with respect to visa 
decisions. In the Mexico case study, the ambassador and staff at the Canadian mission were highly 
involved, not only in informing their counterparts about the decision, but also in providing the 
rationale for such a decision. In the case of Mexico, while CIC put some public notices in the 
papers, it also benefited from existing media interest in the issue. The public appeared to be fairly 
well-informed about the need to apply for visa as evidenced by large line-ups in front of the 
embassy the day the announcement was made. Many interviewees from the mission and NHQ felt 
that the Mexico visa change was effectively communicated. Some mission staff commented that the 
large number of Mexican citizens applying for a visa immediately after the imposition was an 
indication that they were aware of the new requirement. 
3.4. Performance – Achieving integrity and facilitation outcomes  
Using data from interviews, administrative systems and case studies, the evaluation examined the 
extent to which CIC’s Visa Policy Program contributed to the achievement of the intermediate 
outcome of the visa program: protection of the integrity of Canada’s immigration and asylum 
systems and facilitation of travel for bona-fide travellers as well as balancing both.  
3.4.1. Integrity of the immigration system  
The evaluation examined the following aspects of integrity: 
Integrity of the immigration system: At the outcome level, the impact of the visa program on 
protecting the integrity of the immigration system was assessed by looking at the effectiveness of 
the Program in deterring non-bona fide travellers from applying, preventing irregular migration, 
and preventing immigration violations. 
 
27 
Integrity of the asylum and refugee system: The impact of the Visa Program on the integrity of 
the asylum and refugee system was assessed by examining the effect of the visa on asylum claim 
rates, especially those presumed to be unfounded, and the costs/savings associated with processing 
such claims. 
Finding: The visitor visa is an effective tool that helps protect the integrity of CIC’s immigration 
and asylum system through selecting low-risk countries for visa-free travel, and potentially being a 
deterrent for non-bona fide travellers. Its role as a mechanism to address immigration violations is 
less certain. The impact of the visitor visa on irregular migration is difficult to measure due to lack 
of data on certain indicators (e.g., overstays)  
Deterrence effect 
The existence of a visa plays a role in preventing people who may not meet eligibility/admissibility 
criteria from applying. Interviewees noted that the existence or re-imposition of a visa requirement 
on a country is a deterrent for non-bona fide travellers. They noted that a visa requirement in theory 
should have a self-selection or deterrence effect on ineligible/inadmissible travellers to Canada. 
This is supported by evidence in the case study countries (e.g., Czech Republic and Mexico). While 
it is difficult to generalize and quantify this effect across all visa-required countries, travel patterns 
after removing the visa exemptions suggests that there is a link between visa requirements and 
deterrence of non-bona fide travel. For example, in the Czech Republic, visa refusal rates were very 
low when a visa was required; in 2010, the TRV refusal rate for Czech Republic nationals was 
around 1%. This may suggest that potential applicants self-assess their likelihood of obtaining a visa 
to come to Canada.  
Irregular migration 
Once visitors obtain a visa and gain entry into Canada, they must comply with the terms and 
conditions of their stay: they should not engage in unauthorized activities, such as work and/or 
study; they should leave the country as stated; and they should not use their temporary entry to 
pursue permanent residency. Any temporary visitor who pursues other activities is in direct conflict 
with conditions of admission, which undermines the integrity of the immigration program.  
Due to the weaknesses of the data collection system, it is not possible to assess the number of 
people who remain in Canada longer than authorized (overstays), those who engage in illegal work 
while under temporary visitor status, or those that apply for permanent residence while in the 
country. While CIC considers these indicators relevant to measure irregular migration as described 
in its PAA, Canada and many other peer countries do not have exit control systems, so it is difficult 
to know how many people remain in the country when their period of authorized stay ends. In 
2008, the Auditor General report estimated that there were 63,000 people with enforceable 
removal orders in Canada; however, since there is no information on who has left the country, the 
number of illegal migrants may be higher. The report stated that Canada does not monitor the exit of 
travellers from the country, and therefore (..) does not know whether individuals have left the country as required in their 
temporary permit.18  
                                                           
18 Auditor General Report, Chapter 5 – Citizenship and Immigration Canada – Control and Enforcement. 
www.oag-bvg.gc.ca/internet/English/parl_oag_200304_05_e_12911.html 
 
28 
Immigration violations 
Immigration violations are documented infractions of Canadian immigration laws, such as 
interceptions of individuals en route to Canada, of inadmissible individuals identified at a Canadian 
port of entry and those identified in Canada. In this section, immigration violation rates, for both 
visa-required and visa exempt countries, are compared in order to determine whether the visa has 
been successful at protecting the integrity of Canada’s immigration system. Inadmissible travellers 
attempt to enter Canada on an ongoing and regular basis, which presents a risk to the integrity of 
Canada’s immigration system. The risks are that travellers may repeat previous unlawful 
behaviours, or that admitting those with criminal records will tarnish Canada’s international 
reputation by suggesting that it is a country that provides a haven for serious criminals. Another risk 
is that people with health risks will either directly impact the health of Canadians (e.g. through the 
spread of tuberculosis) or will constitute a drain on public health services (e.g. through treatment 
for chronic illnesses or conditions).  
Table 3-2 and Table 3-3 show that the number of immigration violations remains fairly comparable 
between visa exempt (EXM) and visa-required (REQ) countries, with the exception of intercepts 
(improperly documented people en route to Canada). However, comparing the rates of 
immigration violations from visa exempt and visa-required countries must take into account that 
the majority of international travel to Canada comes from visa exempt countries (between 95% to 
97% of annual travel volumes depending on the year – see Number of Travellers statistics in Table 
3-2). Therefore, while the number of violations is comparable, immigration violation rates are 
much lower for visa exempt countries. As noted in Table 3-2, the rate of immigration violations 
from visa exempt countries is 14 to 20 times lower than visa-required countries depending on the 
year. This suggests that visa exempt countries were appropriately selected for visa-free travel as they 
do not pose the same level of risk in term of immigration violations.  
These numbers also indicate that a visa requirement does not completely eliminate immigration 
violations, which would presumably be higher if a visa exemption had been granted. Data from the 
Czech Republic and Mexico case studies support this presumption. The highest rates of 
immigration violations for the Czech Republic occurred in the years following the granting of the 
visa exemption (from 2007 to 2009) primarily as a result of the high number of asylum claims. The 
immigration violation rate then diminished following the removal of the visa exemption in 2009. 
For both the Czech Republic and Mexico, the years following the removal of the visa exemption 
align with a drop in the immigration violation rate, therefore suggesting that visas are effective in 
reducing immigration violation rates. In terms of the impact of granting visa exemptions, there was 
no noticeable increase or decrease in immigration violation rates is the cases of Taiwan and Poland. 
Therefore, there was no impact on the integrity of the immigration system. While the data shows 
that both visa exempt and visa-required countries are sources of immigration violations, the 
removal of the visa exemption helped control the immigration violation rate in the case of Mexico 
and the Czech Republic. However, it is difficult to determine the degree to which immigration 
violations would change (increase) without visa requirements for current visa-required countries.  
 
29 
Table 3-2: Violation rates for visa-exempt and visa-required countries  
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Number of Travellers
EXM 32,290,184 29,229,676 26,206,439 23,417,882 23,382,569
REQ 1,035,009 1,076,740 1,092,824 1,210,447 1,388,505
Grand Total 33,325,193 30,306,416 27,299,263 24,628,329 24,771,074
Intercepts
EXM 272 693 530 1,038 1,011
REQ 4,076 3,670 3,347 3,746 4,765
A44 Inadmissibilities
EXM 17,005 19,198 21,862 11,560 10,655
REQ 15,488 17,681 20,828 29,128 17,115
A42 Inadmissibilities 
EXM 52,916 48,837 50,443 31,938 41,270
REQ 19,812 19,420 23,519 24,365 22,641
Total Immigration Violations
EXM 70,193 68,728 72,835 44,536 52,936
REQ 39,376 40,771 47,694 57,239 44,521
Total 109,569 109,499 120,529 101,775 97,457
Rates of Immigration violations
EXM 0.22% 0.24% 0.28% 0.23% 0.23%
REQ 3.80% 3.79% 4.36% 4.73% 3.21%
Grand Total 0.33% 0.36% 0.44% 0.46% 0.39%
Ratio (REQ to EXP) 17.50 16.10 15.70 20.19 14.16
Legend: ECM - Vixa exempt countries; REQ - Visa-required countries
Source: CBSA administrative data 
Number of Immigration Violations
 
Note: The above are annual immigration violation rates. In addition to visitors, it includes immigration violations related to students 
and temporary workers. These rates relate to cases identified en route to Canada (intercepts) and those that are identified at the 
port of entry or inland (A44 and R4219). These rates do not include inadmissible cases identified in missions abroad. 
It is important to note that the majority of visitors to Canada do not pose much of a threat to 
Canadians. There are; however, individuals who may pose more direct risks to the Canadian public, 
such as those with previous criminal histories. Interviewees suggested that those with links to 
organized crime or human trafficking are of particular concern, as the individuals involved may 
continue unlawful activities within Canada. A comparison of the type of immigration violations 
between visa exempt and visa-required countries (see Table 3-2 and Table 3-3) shows that: 
 Visa-exempt countries are not a major source of security or human right violations (related to 
section A34-35 of IRPA). 
 The number of criminality-related inadmissibility cases (related to section 36 of IRPA) among 
visa-exempt countries is higher than visa-required countries, suggesting that a visa requirement 
may be effective in decreasing the number of criminality cases.  
                                                           
19 A44 inadmissibility cases are those relating to sections 34-42 of IRPA (See Table 4 for detailed categories. R42 
inadmissibility cases are those relating to determination if a foreign national could become a temporary or a permanent 
resident or make a claim for refugee protection; direct a person to leave Canada or to return to the United States; allow 
the withdrawal of an application to enter Canada or refuse the entry to a person who does not satisfy the requirements 
of the Act; authorize a person to enter Canada for further examination or an admissibility hearing.  
 
30 
 The top country among non-visa-required countries with immigration violations is the United 
States which accounts for about 75% of the total immigration violation rate. However, given 
the volume of travellers from the U.S., the proportion of immigration violations from that 
country remains very low at 0.2%.  
 In Mexico, the number of immigration violations decreased significantly, from 9,000 in 2006 to 
3,500 in 2010, after the visa re-imposition. This may suggest that the re-imposition had an 
effect on either deterring or screening out inadmissible applicants/applications.  
Table 3-3: Number of inadmissibility reports per year, by visa status and IRPA 
section 
Visa Status / Inadmissibility Type 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
34 - Security grounds - 3 6 1 1
35 - Human Rights Violations 1 - 2 3 1
36(1) - Criminality - Serious 3,540 3,135 3,115 2,420 2,199
36(2) - Criminality - Lesser 4,331 3,636 3,293 2,604 2,252
37 - Organized Crime 23 25 43 36 29
38 - Health 12 7 11 12 12
39 - Financial 61 49 55 46 45
40 - Misrepresentation 103 120 96 74 96
41 - Non-compliance 8,760 12,057 15,135 6,296 5,949
42 - Inadmis. family member 174 166 106 68 71
TRV-exempt (total) 17,005 19,198 21,862 11,560 10,655
34 - Security grounds 23 22 21 30 74
35 - Human Rights Violations 13 19 19 20 13
36(1) - Criminality - Serious 480 477 517 706 569
36(2) - Criminality - Lesser 494 507 536 602 482
37 - Organized Crime 24 29 35 78 85
38 - Health 10 20 14 14 15
39 - Financial 17 16 13 16 10
40 - Misrepresentation 240 167 142 186 254
41 - Non-compliance 14,159 16,387 19,484 27,405 15,523
42 - Inadmis. family member 28 37 47 71 90
TRV-required (total) 15,488 17,681 20,828 29,128 17,115
Source: FOSS data – port of entry and inland enforcement inadmissibility reports.
 
Even though the number of inadmissible cases for visa-required countries is not large, the 
following questions remain: does this represent an acceptable level of risk? Should these cases have 
been identified abroad through health and security screening (even though some of the violations 
will have occurred in Canada)? 
3.4.2. Integrity of the asylum system 
Canada’s existing asylum system faces an ever-increasing number of new claims every year, with 
claims taking years to process. The perceived generous nature of Canada’s asylum system may 
encourage submissions of unfounded asylum claims, which serves to reduce Canada’s ability to 
help those who truly need protection. The analysis below includes an assessment of the impact of 
the visa on asylum claim rates as well as an analysis of claims made by the case study countries 
under discussion. The impact of the visa program on the integrity of the asylum system was 
assessed by examining the effect of the visa on asylum claim rates and the costs/savings associated 
with processing unfounded claims 
 
31 
Asylum claim rates  
CIC uses asylum claim rates as one of the quantitative thresholds to inform changes in visa 
requirements and defines it as one of the indicators pertaining to Managed Migration outcome 
results in the PAA/PMF document. Figure 3-5 shows that the proportion of asylum claims, from 
both visa-required and visa-exempt countries, have shifted over time. Even though the majority of 
claims have consistently been from visa-required countries, from 2006 to 2008 there was nearly a 
20% increase in the proportion of asylum claims from visa exempt countries. This increase was 
mostly due to increasing numbers of asylum claims from Mexico. In 2009 and 2010, this trend was 
reversed due to the removal of the visa exemption granted to nationals of the Czech Republic and 
Mexico, which were major sources of asylum claims. Furthermore, Figure 3-5 shows that there has 
been an overall increase in the total number of asylum claims from 2006 to 2009, followed by a 
large decrease in 2010, mainly resulting from the removal of the visa exemption for nationals of 
Mexico. It is evident that CIC monitors and makes changes to the visa exemption list when 
necessary; and when possible removing from this list countries that are becoming major sources of 
asylum claims.  
 Figure 3-5: Total number of asylum claims made, by visa requirement 
13,341
15,343
16,312 26,369
16,650
6,047 7,624
12,218
6,883 6,521
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Visa required
Visa not required
Source: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
CIC’s administrative data confirms that the removal of the visa exemption for nationals of Mexico 
was very effective at reducing the number of asylum claims. Figure 3-6 shows the increase in 
Mexican asylum claims from 2001 to 2008 (from 1,730 to 9,462 claims) and the significant decrease 
since the removal of the visa exemption in July 2009 (from 7,570 claims in 2009 to 1,199 claims in 
2010). This represents a substantial decrease (87%) in asylum claims from 2008 to 2010.  
 
32 
Figure 3-6: Total number of asylum claims made, by Mexican nationals in Canada 
1,730 2,090 2,597 2,810 3,455
4,921
7,228
9,462
7,570
1,199 4160
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000
10,000
2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 
(Jan-
Sep)Source: OPS Statistics, CIC
 
Table 3-4, below, presents the proportion of asylum claims made (per year) by each case study 
country (2005 to 2010). The cells highlighted in red indicate the years in which each country was 
visa-exempt. The data indicates that the introduction of TRV requirements was effective in 
reducing the proportion of asylum claims made in Canada by nationals from the two case study 
countries.20 In particular:  
 Czech Republic: The granting of a visa exemption in 2007 was followed by an increase in the 
asylum claim rate. The removal of the visa exemption in 2009 resulted in a significant decrease 
in the proportion of asylum claims made in Canada coming from Czech nationals, from 6.58% 
to 0.18%.  
 Mexico: The removal of the visa exemption in 2009 was very effective in reducing the asylum 
claim rate. In 2009, 23% of the asylum claims made in Canada were from Mexican nationals, 
which decreased to 4.7% in 2010 following the removal of the visa exemption. It is expected 
that the asylum claim rate will further diminish as many of the asylum claims that occurred after 
July 2009 (date of the removal of the visa exemption) could have been made by Mexican 
nationals present in Canada before the imposition. 
Table 3-4: Asylum claim rate proportion from case study countries, 2005-2010 
 
Country / Year 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Mexico 17.23% 21.32% 24.85% 25.48% 22.56% 4.73%
Czech Republic 0.06% 0.00% 0.39% 2.32% 6.58% 0.18%
Poland 0.21% 0.20% 0.13% 0.26% 0.31% 0.28%
Taiw an 0.02% 0.02% 0.01% 0.03% 0.02% 0.03%
Source: OPS-Stats  
To compare the rates of asylum claims made by citizens from the case study countries and those 
from other countries in the world, asylum claim rates made in Canada and in other countries are 
included in the Technical appendices. The data shows that in-Canada asylum claim rates were 
                                                           
20 While monitored, asylum claims for Poland and Taiwan are not a concern. 
 
33 
consistently higher for the two case study countries when a visa was not required (In 2009, 95% of 
asylum claims from Czech nationals made globally and 80% of those made by Mexican nationals, 
were made in Canada).  
Outcomes of asylum claims 
CIC’s mandate includes affording protection to people in need of protection. Therefore, reducing 
the asylum claim rates alone is not sufficient to assess the effectiveness of the Visitor Visa Program 
in protecting the integrity of the asylum system. The evaluation examined the legitimacy of the 
claims using asylum claim outcomes (rates of approval/refusal as adjudicated by the Immigration 
and Refugee Board (IRB), and withdrawal/abandonment by claimants).  
Overall, from 2000 to 2010, the asylum claim approval rate for all countries was around 43% (see 
Table 3-5). Over the period examined, Table 3-5 shows that asylum claim outcomes for all case 
study countries differed from this average. The proportion of negative decisions diverged the most 
in the case of the Czech Republic, with a rate half that of the 10-year overall average. In all other 
case study countries, the proportion of negative outcomes was greater than the average. The case 
study countries also displayed higher rates of abandoned or withdrawn asylum claims than the 
international average. Unfortunately, data are not systematically collected on the reasons for the 
abandonment or withdrawal of asylum claims. 
Table 3-5: Asylum claim outcomes, case study countries, 2000-2010 (summary) 
Country Finalizations Positive Negative Abandoned
Withdrawn
/Other Positive Negative
Abandoned/
Withdrawn
All countries 312,307 134,923 124,172 22,661 30,549 43% 40% 17%
Czech Republic 2,355 311 451 81 1,512 13% 19% 68%
Mexico 36,878 5,925 20,328 2,678 7,947 16% 55% 29%
Poland 1,654 520 747 268 119 31% 45% 23%
Taiw an 65 8 33 8 16 12% 51% 37%
Source: OPS Stats
PercentNumber 
2000-2010
 
While it is not possible to make a definitive assessment of the legitimacy of the claims, the high rates 
of abandoned claims plus the different pattern of negative decisions suggests that many may be 
unfounded. If this is the case, then the imposition of a visa in these cases does contribute to 
protecting the integrity of the asylum system.  
3.4.3. Facilitation of travel  
The following section assesses the achievement of the Visitor Visa Program’s facilitation objective. 
To assess this objective, the evaluation examined the extent to which the visa application process 
facilitates travel, in comparison to other countries, and the impact of visa requirement changes on 
travel patterns. This section also presents some mechanisms and tools that aim to facilitate travel to 
Canada for bona fide visitors.  
 
34 
Finding: CIC’s Visitor Visa Program facilitates the movement of bona fide travellers, as evidenced 
by the fact that the TRV processing requirements are similar to those in other countries; by 
reaching CIC targets for approval rates; and by introducing other facilitative approaches and tools.  
Processing requirements 
The visitor visa process and processing requirements can be a travel barrier if the process is not 
timely and the requirements are more extensive than those used by other countries. Canada has 
faced criticism from stakeholders, such as the Canadian Tourism Commission (CTC), regarding the 
extensive information requirements. In 2010, CIC conducted an internally-led comparison study of 
the TRV application processes and requirements between Canada and other countries competing 
for international tourists. Information was gathered and analysed for the American, British, French 
and Australian visitor visa programs in certain key locations comparing processes and requirements 
for nationals of China, India and Brazil. The study showed that Canada collected more information 
than the other countries reviewed (see Table 3-6). It has the highest number of fields to be 
completed by applicants. Also, some information requested varies between different Canadian visa 
offices. For example, Details of Past Work Experience and Details of Travel History were not 
systematically requested by visa officers in all missions. On the other hand, Canada asked a similar 
number of security questions as other countries and requests a similar number of supporting 
documents.  
Table 3-6: Comparison of Canadian and other countries visitor visa application 
requirements 
US UK France Australia Visa Canada
Number of required forms to be filled 1 1 1 or 2 1 or 2 2 or 3
Number of pages to fill on the main 
application form Not clear* 10 3 8 4
Number of fields to fill on all required 
forms 100 98 49 to 84 95 to 137 101 to 146
Details of Education Required Not required Not required Not required Required
Details of Past Work Experience Required Not required Not required Not required Required*
Details of Travel History Required Required Not required Not required To Canada only* 
Family Composition Information Required Required Not required Varies Required
Number of Security Questions 12 6 0 9 5
Number of additional required 
documents 6 to 8 16 15 to 23 13 to 19 7 to 17
Source: CIC Internal Review .  * updated information
Note: The information in the table presented on the Australia visa excludes eTA related processes
 
The study showed that Canada offers more options to submit an application, and the vast majority 
of applications are processed on paper without an interview. The absence of interviews for 
Canadian applicants could explain the need for a higher number of supporting documents than, for 
instance, the U.S., where all applicants are interviewed. Fees requested by Canada to process a 
single-entry TRV application are the lowest of all comparison countries. Moreover, Canada offers 
comparable processing times in the locations reviewed (see Table 3-7).  
 
35 
Table 3-7: Comparison of application processing  
US UK France Australia Visa Canada
Application Submission Process Online* VAC In person + 
VAC
In person + VAC + 
mail +Online*
In person + VAC + 
mail + online* 
Interview 100% If needed If needed If needed If needed
Biometrics Yes Yes Yes No No
Fee (excluding VAC fees) $140 CAD $115 CAD $80 CAD $104 CAD $75 CAD (single 
entry visa) 
Processing time in w orking days 14 to 93 days 1 to 10 days 5 to 10 days 5 to 15 days 1 to 21 days  ** 
Source: CIC Internal Review . * updated information. ** 80% of cases.
 
CIC International region has reviewed all mission requirements, such as forms and supporting 
documents requested, with a view to having a more consistent approach for supporting documents 
throughout the network. CIC’s TRV streamlining exercise in 2011-12 has largely eliminated visa 
office differences on forms and reduced the number of questions asked. Since January 2011, 
applications are only accessible online and must be completed online to ensure that the 2D barcode 
is created for each application. Applications are no longer mailed to clients, nor are they available 
for pick up in the missions. It is not known what implications this may have on client perceptions 
of the ease of access to application and on the number of applications received.  
Approval rates 
TRV approval rates show the extent to which visa officers approve or reject TRV applications, 
which could be considered an indicator of facilitation. CIC administrative data indicates that the 
majority of TRV applications, between 79% and 81%, are approved across all regions for the years 
under review. By-mission approval rates vary, with a minority having approval rates below 50% (six 
missions having approval rates below 50% in 2006-2008 and two offices in 2010). Between 17 and 
20 offices (depending on the year) have approval rates of over 90%. Overall, during the last five 
years, CIC has consistently met the established approval rate target of 80% for visitors.  
Facilitative approaches  
To meet its facilitation objective, CIC employs different approaches to facilitate the movement of 
bona fide travellers from visa-required countries. Several facilitative approaches are described 
below. The effectiveness of these approaches is difficult to measure due to their relative infancy; 
however, some early positive results were observed.  
Visa Application Centres (VACs): One of the travel facilitation mechanisms that aim to increase 
convenience for the client in the visa application experience is the establishment of VACs. VACs 
assist clients with the visa application process by providing computers for self-service, providing 
one-on-one application completion service, providing photo and photocopy services, checking 
applications for completion, sending completed applications to the missions via courier; scheduling 
interviews between applicants and immigration staff at the mission; and receiving sealed visa 
decisions for distribution to clients. VAC staff also provide services such as answering questions 
for clients, providing a tracking system so clients can monitor the progress of their application, and 
operating Call Centres and websites to facilitate the application process for clients. 
Their services are based on cost-recovery established by the service provider (as approved by CIC) 
and their services are optional. The establishment of VACs may yield one or more benefits, which 
include: 
 
36 
 Easier access – The ability of VACs to provide more places of service and additional hours of 
operations was noted by several interviewees. This allows clients more opportunity to access a 
point of service, therefore potentially reducing the time, effort and cost associated with travel 
required to submit an application. Canada currently has 60 VACs in 41 countries, almost 
doubling the points of access available through missions only. By 2014, CIC wants to expand 
the VAC network to 150 points of services. In an audit of the Mexico VAC performed by CIC 
in July/August 2010, a large majority of the respondents found the VAC location (86%) and the 
hours of operation (93%) to be convenient.  
 Personal contact – The ability to obtain in-person help with completing and verifying an 
application is one advantage of the more client-focused environment that VACs can create. 
Some interview respondents included among the advantages of the VAC the ability to deliver 
face-to-face service and to deliver services in local languages.  
Although VACs provide a number of facilitation benefits, a number of concerns were raised during 
the evaluation. These include:  
 Increased cost of obtaining a visa - While use of VACs is not mandatory, if a client chooses 
to use the services of a VAC, the VAC fees are an additional cost. However, this may be offset 
by the savings on travel, should such travel to the mission be required to submit the 
applications in person or courier cost to submit the application.  
 Use of VACs - In Mexico, over 90% of applications are submitted through VACs, which 
indicates it is a popular service; however, a review of some mission websites suggests that it may 
not be clear to the client if the use of VACs is optional. Therefore it is not clear if VACs are 
popular because of the service they provide or because clients are not sure if they are required 
to use their services.  
 Applicant privacy – While CIC and clients may be interested in VACs as a travel facilitation 
mechanism, some concerns related to client privacy have been raised. During its operations, 
VACs gather, temporarily, a great deal of client information even though the information that 
the VAC can collect are limited and the applications and documents are sent daily to the visa 
office and are not kept at the VAC. Although service agreements stipulate privacy-related 
mitigation strategies, not all had been implemented as visible in the review of the Mexico VAC 
(e.g., VACs use of Google’s email service to contact CIC). As a result of the review, privacy 
protection processes were strengthened. Privacy and information security concerns were raised 
by a few interviewees. A Privacy Impact Assessment and a Threat and Risk Assessment were 
conducted and the risks were defined as being of medium concern by the Canadian Privacy 
Commissioner. Most of the suggestions for improvement were incorporated in the agreements. 
This speaks to the importance of undertaking performance and contract reviews to ensure 
compliance. This will be an integral component of the global contract. In the future, some 
VACs will also be charged with the collection of biometric information, which, while 
convenient for clients, may increase privacy-related risks. This is currently being reviewed by 
the Office of the Privacy Commissioner though a Privacy Impact Assessment.  
Business Facilitation: Another facilitation measure targets business travellers. Facilitation 
measures for business travellers have been developed in selected missions abroad and were in use 
for several years in India and China, and introduced in Mexico following the removal of the visa 
exemption. CIC is now in the process of applying these approaches more widely and, in 2011, 
introduced broader guidance for such measures. These mechanisms aim to make the process more 
 
37 
efficient for low-risk cases, while maintaining integrity and improving customer service. Such 
initiatives include the Business Express Program (BEP), which offers rapid visa processing and 
simplifies application procedures for employees of pre-qualified businesses and/or priority 
processing of business visitor applications. In addition, some missions conduct outreach activities 
with local business people and business associations in collaboration with the DFAIT Trade 
Commissioner Service in order to answer their questions, review existing procedures, and present 
an overview of visa processing for business visitors.  
Visa-fee-exempt entry for special events: To facilitate the travel of persons participating in 
special events held in Canada, CIC introduced, on a case-by-case basis, an exemption from the visa 
fee. Recent participants to a women’s conference on empowerment, a commonwealth conference, 
and a conference on maternal and child health, have benefitted from this initiative.  
Transit without Visa (TWOV):21 Another mechanism that facilitates the travel through Canada 
for foreign nationals of some countries is the exemption from a TRV requirement while travelling 
through Canadian airports, allowing them to transit through Canada without having to first obtain 
a Canadian temporary resident visa.  
Multiple-entry/Long-duration visas: CIC has increasingly moved towards the issuance of 
long-term multiple-entry visas. The maximum validity period of a multiple-entry visa can be given 
for the validity of the passport (generally less one month), which may be up to 10 years. This 
reduces the need for the clients to return to visa offices every time they need to travel, thereby 
facilitating travel to Canada for visitors from visa-required countries.  
Impact on travel patterns  
To assess the effect of visa requirements on travel patterns, the evaluation examined the impact of 
the recent visa changes for the case study countries under review. Table 3-8 presents information 
on the annual number of travellers to Canada from each case study country. This information is 
presented separately by status of visa requirement (visa-exempt/ -required), and reports the yearly 
number of travellers when each visa condition applied. For the case study countries under review, 
as illustrated, the removal of the visa exemption had a noticeable impact on the number of 
travellers coming to Canada. Specifically, the number of Mexican travellers to Canada dropped 
considerably since the removal of the visa exemption in 2009, although it is not clear to what extent 
larger global events (such as the financial crisis and ensuing recession) played a role in the 
magnitude of this decrease. In the case of the Czech Republic, the table also shows a noticeable 
decrease in the number of travellers since the removal of the visa exemption.  
The impact of granting a visa exemption is less pronounced; however, the data show some increase 
in travel after granting a visa exemption. For example, the number of travellers from Poland and 
the Czech Republic increased greatly in the years in which nationals of these countries could travel 
to Canada without first obtaining a visa. While it is clear that visa requirement changes have an 
impact on travel patterns, it is difficult to assess the extent to which bona fide travellers are affected. 
In particular, when a visa exemption is granted, it is difficult to determine whether the increase in 
travel to Canada is the result of non-bona fide travellers (unfounded asylum seekers, those who 
would otherwise be found inadmissible); similarly, the same can be attributed to decreases in travel 
due to the removal of a visa exemption (ineligible/inadmissible people are screened out or are 
deterred from applying). However, the magnitude of this is difficult to estimate, especially in 
                                                           
21 cicintranet/CICExplore/english/guides/bulletins/2011/297-eng.aspx 
 
38 
conjunction with the many other factors that either hinder or encourage travel to Canada (i.e., 
economic conditions, geographic location, ease of application process, etc.). 
Table 3-8: Number of travellers under different visa requirement conditions, case 
study countries 
Country 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Czech Republic (Visa Req.) 10,226 11,118 11,570 11,791 11,144 -- 8,108 12,003
Czech Republic (Visa Non-req.) -- -- -- -- 1,536 15,917 8,339 --
Total Czech Republic 10,226 11,118 11,570 11,791 12,680 15,917 16,447 12,003
Poland (Visa Req.) 20,445 23,007 22,767 25,634 24,012 2,054 -- --
Poland (Visa Non-req.) -- -- -- -- -- 32,728 -- --
Poland (e-passport req.) -- -- -- -- -- -- 28,592 29,565
Total Poland 20,445 23,007 22,767 25,634 24,012 34,782 28,592 29,565
Mexico (Visa Req.) -- -- -- -- -- -- 74,316 123,763
Mexico (Visa Non-req.) 144,061 177,269 194,344 213,945 250,633 270,828 97,690
Total Mexico 144,061 177,269 194,344 213,945 250,633 270,828 172,006 123,763
Taiwan (Visa Req.) 69,273 108,611 100,635 94,917 82,524 63,455 51,608
Taiwan (Visa Non-req.) -- -- -- -- -- -- -- 54,445
Total Taiwan 69,273 108,611 100,635 94,917 82,524 63,455 51,608 54,445
Source: Statistics Canada
Note: The Mexico, Czech Republic and Poland decisions took place mid-year, therefore some travel data shows both visa regimes
Also see Technical appendices for graphical representation of the table data.
 
Many interviewees confirmed that when a visa exemption is removed, there is a negative impact on 
the travel of bona fide visitors to Canada. A visa requirement can be an irritant and have a 
psychological effect on bona fide travel to Canada, suggesting that in certain cultures and countries 
not granting a visa exemption could be a sign of Canada being a ‘closed’ country, thus deterring 
travel by its citizens.  
Some interviewees noted that while there is an initial negative impact on travel when visa 
exemption is removed, their perception is that this impact is only short-term. Because visas are 
common across the world and the fees are competitive in Canada, travellers become accustomed to 
the requirement and travel patterns should return to pre-imposition levels.  
3.4.4. Balancing facilitation with integrity 
To assess the balance between the facilitation and system integrity objectives, the evaluation 
focused on the perceptions of key informants. Respondents were asked to comment on whether 
CIC’s visitor visa policy was successful in meeting its overall objective: balancing the protection of 
the integrity of Canada’s immigration and asylum system with the facilitation of temporary resident 
travel.  
Finding: CIC’s visitor visa policy, supported by other tools with similar objectives, is largely 
perceived to have successfully achieved a balance between protecting the in tegrity of its 
immigration and asylum system and the facilitation of bona-fide travel to Canada. In addition, the 
visa policy is dynamic and has the ability to allow CIC to react to contextual changes.  
The majority of respondents felt that CIC’s visa policy has achieved a balance between the 
facilitation and protection objectives. A few commented that the balance has been achieved to a 
large degree with a slight emphasis on protection, as evidenced by the recent visa imposition 
 
39 
decisions. Only a minority of interviewees considered the policy to be more facilitative than the 
context requires, and suggested that visa policy may be influenced by stakeholders interested in 
promoting economic benefits to Canada.  
Respondents who felt that CIC has achieved the necessary balance, frequently cited some of the 
new tools and program as important components of this balance.  
Many interviewees commented that while visa policy is a crude, blanket approach intended to 
protect Canadians, there are other tools, policies and programs that CIC and OGDs offer that help 
achieve/refine this balance. As previously noted, initiatives that help facilitate travel include: 
programs that facilitate travel for business people, workers, and certain groups travelling with tour 
companies; and Visa Application Centres (VACs). Other initiatives, such as biometrics, attempt to 
increase security and protect Canadian borders.  
Overall, interviewees suggested that the balance between security and facilitation shifts depending 
on the political climate or international events (e.g., September 11, 2001) and visa policy decisions 
should have the ability to address those emerging risks and opportunities. Most respondents agreed 
the visa policy is dynamic and has the ability to allow CIC to react to contextual changes.  
3.4.5. Other impacts related to visa requirement changes 
A number of additional impact of visa changes identified during the evaluation on bilateral 
relations, partners, and the tourism industry are examined in this section.  
Finding: The removal of visa exemptions affects Canada’s bilateral relations with countries 
impacted by the change. Furthermore, the introduction or removal of visitor visa requirements can 
impact CIC partners’ operations and political mandates.  
Impact on bilateral relations with other countries  
Many interviewees acknowledged the fact that Canada’s visa policy may have an impact on bilateral 
relations. However, this impact is very difficult to anticipate because it depends on many external 
factors, such as how the impacted country interprets the change. Many interviewees stated that the 
visa change processes, including the country visit, aim to address in advance any potential bilateral 
or multilateral issues with the impacted countries.  
Nevertheless, two of the recent cases may have had a negative effect on bilateral relations. The 
removal of the visa exemption for nationals of the Czech Republic affected Canada’s bilateral 
relations with that country in three ways: the Czech government retaliated by imposing a visa 
requirement on Canadians travelling to the Czech Republic on diplomatic and official passports; it 
recalled its Ambassador to Canada; and it continues to warn that the visa requirement may affect 
the Czech Republic’s position on bilateral or multilateral initiatives (such as the Canada-EU 
Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement). The Czech Republic case is also a key source of 
strain between Canada and the European Union due to the fact that Canada does not adhere to the 
European Union’s policy of reciprocity. This may also prove an irritant with Romania and Bulgaria, 
both EU states still requiring Canadian TRVs who may use the trade negotiations and ratification 
issues as possible leverage in discussions on the continuation of the Canadian visa requirement.  
In the case of Mexico, interviewees noted that the removal of the visa exemption created negative 
feelings towards Canada. During many bilateral or trilateral meetings with Mexican government 
 
40 
representatives, the topic of the visa requirement was broached. In addition, the Government of 
Mexico introduced a visa for Canadian diplomatic personnel.  
Impact on OGD partners 
The majority of interviewees indicated that some of CIC’s immigration and enforcement partners 
(i.e., CBSA, DFAIT, RCMP, IRB, P/Ts) are impacted by CIC’s visitor visa policy and associated 
visa changes. The magnitude of this impact depends on the role of the department and may depend 
on what country is affected by the decision. The following notes several impacts on certain 
partners:  
 CBSA: Interviewees noted that CBSA’s ability to meet its protection mandate may be affected, 
especially when a visa exemption is granted and results in an increased number of asylum claims 
at the border and eventual need to remove unsuccessful claimants or visitors that overstay. 
Conversely, visa re-imposition supports the CBSA mandate to large degree as it reduces those 
activities related to large numbers of asylum claims at the border from a particular country.  
 DFAIT: Many interviewees suggested that DFAIT is affected in its ability to meet its 
facilitation mandate when a visa exemption is removed because it receives many complaints 
from business and government officials. DFAIT’s role in promoting trade is also affected by a 
change in visa requirements, as well as by its role as a government representative in the 
international arena. This is visible in the impact on dealings with the European Union with 
regards to the change in visa requirements for nationals of the Czech Republic.  
 RCMP: A few interviewees noted that the RCMP is likely to have some possible resource 
implications if more criminality screenings are required.  
 IRB: To the extent that changing a visa requirement has an impact on the number of refugee 
claims, it will also have an impact on the workload of the IRB; either increasing in refugee 
claims as a result of a visa lifting or decrease in case visa exemption is removed. 
 P/Ts: Provinces are affected by the number of asylum claimants in terms of the costs 
associated with the provision of social services. On the other hand, provincial tourism is also 
affected with the potential decline in travellers from certain countries (e.g.; Mexican tourists to 
British Columbia ski resorts).  
Finding: There is a potential negative impact on the Canadian tourism industry when a visa 
exemption is removed, as it is expected to result in a decrease in the number of travellers from the 
affected country. Conversely, when a visa exemption is granted, it should have a posit ive impact 
on tourism. The available evidence supports these assumptions, although data on the magnitude of 
the impact is mixed. 
Impact on Canadian tourism industry 
As noted previously, re-imposing a visa requirement on a country has an impact on travel patterns 
to Canada. The expectation is that the removal of a visa exemption will decrease the number of 
travellers to Canada, thereby decreasing tourism revenue, and the reverse is expected when a visa 
exemption is granted. Some key informants believe that there was an impact on the Canadian 
tourism industry due to the potential decrease in travellers from countries following the recent 
changes to visa requirements. However, they also believed that any potential impact can only be 
considered on a case-by-case basis. Partners who represent the tourism industry identified the 
 
41 
potential risks, which include decreased revenues and employment. An analysis of the potential 
impact of the Mexico visa requirement on the Canadian tourism industry, provided by Statistics 
Canada, suggests that for the first two years since the change in visa requirements, the Canadian 
tourism industry potentially lost approximately $340 million dollars in tourism revenue.22 This must 
be compared with the cost of the processing of unfounded refugee claims for the two countries (as 
presented later in the Section on Efficiency and Economy). Analysis of the Taiwan tourism data 
from the Canadian Tourism Commission shows that the gain in the Taiwanese tourists brought an 
additional $5 million into the Canadian economy (vis-à-vis $33 million predicted in the RIAS). The 
information on Poland, another case study country where a visa exemption was introduced, shows 
some increase in travel but the impact cannot be estimated due to lack of data. 
3.5. Efficiency, economy and alternatives  
A review of costs associated with the Visitor Visa Program, potential alternatives and 
supplementary approaches, as well as a literature review of tools used by peer countries is contained 
within the following section.  
3.5.1. Resource utilization  
This section briefly reviews Program cost, cost per visa as well as resource saving associated with 
introduction of visa.  
Finding: Although the evaluation framework did not include a detailed analysis of program costs, 
available data suggests that there are several financial resource implications associated with TRVs. 
Furthermore, according to internal financial data, the costs of processing a visa are higher than the 
revenue generated from TRV fees. 
CIC Program cost  
The total costs associated with the CIC Visitor Visa Program (processing, policy and management, 
and corporate support services) are presented in Table 3-9. Using data from CIC’s Cost 
Management Model (CMM)23, these costs were estimated at $68M in 2007/08 and $87.5M in 
2009/10. A part of the cost of the Program is CIC’s corporate services, allocated as a percentage of 
the overall CIC expenditures across all CIC programs. With growth in the overall CIC budget the 
cost appears to grow significantly between the two years. A review of the direct visa processing cost 
associated with CIC, LES and CBSA integration officers in the missions shows that around 
$23-24M (33% of the total for 2007/08 and 27% of the total for 2009/10) was allocated to 
processing visas overseas (including screening, processing applications, conducting anti-fraud 
activities, and providing outreach to the public). This amount has not changed significantly 
between the two years for which data is available.  
                                                           
22 www.statcan.gc.ca/tables-tableaux/sum-som/l01/cst01/arts38a-eng.htm 
23 CMM combines visa processing efforts estimates from CIC units and the TRV volumetrics obtained fr om 
operational systems to establish the total costs related to the processing of Visitor Visas. Visitor Visas processing costs 
shown in the table above include operational processing, program management and policy and corporate services. 
CMM allocates the costs of program management and policy and corporate services based on weighted costs 
percentage attributed to the TRV program. 
 
42 
Table 3-9: TRP program cost  
2007-08 2009-10
CIC Visitor Visas Processing CIC $10,253,749 $10,553,399
CBSA - Integration Officers $416,227 $634,348
Locally Engaged Staff $11,881,769 $13,182,410
$22,551,746 $24,370,157
Program and Policy Support $22,649,653 $31,239,956
Corporate Support $22,868,037 $31,925,107
Total Program Costs* $68,069,435 $87,535,219
Source: CIC Cost Management Model - 2007-08 and 2009-10 Strategic outcomes cubes. 
Partial Costs for CIC Visitor Visa processing
 
Cost per visa 
The resources presented above represent CIC costs associated with processing TRVs, including 
CIC, LES and Integrity Officers from CBSA whose salaries are covered by CIC. Table 3-10 (below) 
uses the latest available TRV cost calculations from CIC’s Finance Branch, which includes costs 
borne by other government departments (DFAIT, Department of Justice, additional CBSA 
functions, RCMP, etc.). It shows that the revenues and costs associated with processing temporary 
resident visas for visitors remained fairly stable over the years (2001/02-2007/08). Table 3-10 also 
shows that the revenues and costs associated with processing temporary resident visas for visitors 
were lower than the revenues and costs associated with processing temporary workers and 
students. The table also indicates that full cost recovery of TRV processing was not achieved. This 
means that, for the period under review, the cost of producing a visa was higher than the revenue 
generated through processing fees. Furthermore, the literature review suggests that all reviewed 
countries have had difficulty fully recovering the cost of processing visitor visas through fees. 
While raising application fees to ensure cost recovery may be an option, it may also result in 
diminishing tourism and trade.  
Table 3-10: Total cost of TR processing  
Revenue Cost
2001-2002 $125.00 $148.85
2002-2003 $125.00 $182.16
2004-2005 $125.00 $216.35
2006-2007 $125.00 $185.46
2007-2008 $125.00 $195.97
2001-2002 $150.00 $205.23
2002-2003 $150.00 $221.15
2004-2005 $150.00 $284.39
2006-2007 $150.00 $186.26
2007-2008 $150.00 $215.59
2001-2002 $92.75 $147.38
2002-2003 $92.01 $150.51
2004-2005 $94.62 $134.52
2006-2007 $94.54 $137.01
2007-2008 $95.18 $151.19
$150 $223
$186$125
Category
Source: Cost Management Model and information provided by Other Government Departments (ODG). Information 
from RCMP is missing for some years. 
Average Fee Revenue 
per Aplication
Average Cost per 
Application
5-Year Costing AverageFiscal Year
Visitors
Temporary  
Workers
International 
Students
$94 $144
 
 
43 
TRV processing activities 
CIC estimates the level of effort involved in processing applications. However, due to the structure 
of the system, which relies on extrapolation based on volume, it is difficult to precisely define how 
the time allocated to processing TRVs is actually spent on the various activities, such as criminality 
screening. While volume-based estimates are available, CIC has no precise information to assess 
the actual resource allocation to the particular task. In addition, given the lack of targets for each 
activity, it is not possible to make any judgement on the appropriateness of resource allocation to 
tasks, especially those related to processes related to security screening (anti-fraud, criminality 
screening, etc.).  
Financial resources  
There are financial resource implications when a visa requirement change is made. When a visa 
exemption is removed, CIC may need to open a visa office in the affected country or close an office 
when a visa exemption is granted. Interviewees commented that CIC foregoes revenue (to the 
Consolidated Revenue Fund) when it grants a visa exemption, which may pose a significant 
resource pressure for CIC when granting visa exemptions, yet this is not a consideration in 
providing the recommendations. Furthermore, resources are allocated to support visa changes on 
case-by-case basis. When a visa exemption is removed, CIC and its partners must seek resources to 
support the implementation of the change. In some cases, they must find the resources within their 
existing allocations; in the case of significant change, such as Mexico, resources may be allocated 
through separate funding request.  
Asylum claim costs  
The cost of asylum claims is significant in both federal and provincial governments. The federal 
costs are incurred through operational processing and the provision of interim federal health 
benefits to asylum claimants and their families in Canada. The provincial costs are incurred through 
the provision of legal aid, social assistance, and education. Under the current in Canada asylum 
system, the total cost per claimant is estimated by CIC at:  
 $16,142 for positive claimants ($5,992 federal and $10,151 provincial)  
 $48,285 for negative claimants ($16,593 federal and $31,693 provincial) based on estimated 
time of 50 months for negative claims. 
The costs associated with processing the number of negative and abandoned claims from Mexico 
in 2009 was estimated24 at $304M and $68M for Czech Republic. In 2010, given the decrease in the 
number of claims received, these cost were estimated at $44M for Mexico and $1.2M for the Czech 
Republic, representing a net savings of $326M. Not taking into account other potential costs of 
removing the visa exemption granted to nationals of Mexico or the Czech Republic (e.g., loss of 
tourism), both the federal government and the provinces benefitted from the savings associated 
with a decrease in the number of unfounded refugee claims in Canada.  
  
                                                           
24 The cost of processing positive cases is not included in these estimates.  The cost was calculated using the average 
number of years claimants remain in the country while their claim is in process.  The cost associated with 
abandoned/withdrawn claims was calculated using half of the cost for negative cases.   
 
44 
3.5.2. Alternatives  
When assessing the alternatives to the Visitor Visa Program the evaluation focused on 3 different 
perspectives:  
 Alternative to the evidence-based approach represented by the visa policy framework; 
 Alternatives to visitor visa as a tool;  
 Alternatives to addressing similar objectives – protecting integrity of the immigration and 
asylum system.  
Finding: There are several potential alternatives to CIC’s approach to TRVs. While they are unlikely 
to better meet CIC’s facilitation and integrity objectives at the present time, some could be 
effectively used to supplement existing frameworks, tools and indicators, thereby creating a more 
encompassing system.  
Alternatives to the visa policy framework 
There are two main policymaking alternatives that could be used rather than the evidence-based 
decision making approach currently employed by Canada: the reciprocity approach and the 
perimeter approach. In addition, instead of using a policy framework, decisions could be rooted in 
legislation.  
Reciprocity: Reciprocity is a principle that governs visa policymaking and in which two countries 
exchange the privileges of visa-free travel with one another. Basing policymaking on reciprocity 
could reduce the current level of data collection and evidence gathering, as a decision would rely on 
bilateral agreements 
As an example, Canada is under some pressure from the EU to extend visa-free travel to its 
member countries in a reciprocal approach. When new member countries are admitted to the EU 
(more specifically, to the Schengen area), they extend visa-free travel to Canadians; in exchange, the 
EU would like to see visa-free travel in Canada for the new members. While Canada has lifted visa 
requirements for citizens of Estonia, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic (subsequently 
reintroduced) and Lithuania, it was done based on the current process, not on reciprocity. 
Currently, Canada has a variety of arrangements with various Schengen area countries as some still 
require a TRV to travel to Canada and some travel visa-free. In 2011, citizens of Hungary, who do 
not need a visa, represented the highest source of asylum claims made in Canada (Technical 
Appendix).  
Therefore, while the reciprocity approach could contribute to achieving the facilitation objective 
and would be beneficial to bilateral relationships, it could have negative implications on the 
integrity of the immigration and asylum systems. Canada is considered one of the most risk-free 
countries in the world, and the use of reciprocity for countries that grant Canada visa-free travel 
may expose Canada to unnecessary risks. 
Perimeter: A second potential approach to defining a country’s visitor visa policy is to align the 
policy of several countries to create a perimeter, governed by similar rules of entry for all countries 
within the area. The goal of such an approach is to create a common security area, while at the same 
time, facilitating free mobility between members. The Schengen Area in Europe is the most 
recognized example of such an approach. This approach is effective in facilitating movement 
between member countries and providing all countries within the perimeter area with an integrated 
 
45 
approach to achieve joint security objectives. On the other hand, the perimeter approach requires 
member countries to give up some degree of independent control over decisions regarding its 
borders. Access to a country has been one of the most guarded rights associated with state 
sovereignty; the movement toward integration of members may be a challenge and may be resisted 
by the citizens of the member countries. Among Canadians, 75% are in favour of shared 
intelligence gathering between Canada and the United States, and 23% strongly support this idea. 
However, over two-thirds (68%) of these same respondents believe that Canada will cede too much 
power to the United States over decisions related to immigration, privacy and security.25 Challenges 
in developing such an approach include: creating common systems, processes, and information 
sharing agreements; the high reliance on IT; and the exchange of information between various 
jurisdictions and systems is a concern, in terms of use of personal information and privacy issues.  
On December 7, 2011, Canada and the US announced an Action Plan on Perimeter Security and Economic 
Competitiveness focusing on multiple joint border-related initiatives to achieve a vision built upon a 
perimeter approach to security and economic competitiveness.26 Many of the challenges will be 
addressed in cooperation agreements, such as an information-sharing agreement, through the 
introduction of enhanced screening systems (discussed in next section) and through 
interoperability of IT systems and databases. While the Action Plan aims to align some processes, it 
does not call for the alignment of visa exempt countries. Thus, the current evidence-based 
approach will still inform any future Canadian visa policy decisions.  
Legislated approach: The US uses a legislative approach for introducing countries to their Visa 
Waiver Program, under which each country admitted must be reviewed on a two-year schedule. 
This approach, while providing structure and formality, was perceived by interviewees as less 
flexible than the current needs-based approach. It would require additional resources and was not 
viewed as contributing to the integrity of the visa policy nor would it improve facilitation of travel.  
All three of the above policy approaches could potentially be used by Canada; however, the review 
of their strengths and constraints suggest that none would replace the evidence-based approach 
currently used to achieve a balance between facilitation and integrity objectives. Therefore, the 
evidence-based approach currently employed by Canada appears to be the best way for Canada to 
meet the stated objectives in a flexible and effective manner.  
Alternative to the TRV tool 
In terms of the TRV itself, the main method for granting permission to enter being used currently 
by several of Canada’s peer countries is the electronic travel authorization tool.  
Electronic travel authorization programs (including the Australian eTA/eVisitor and US 
ESTA approaches): An electronic travel authorization requires a potential traveller to complete 
an electronic online application form. The information is processed through an automatic risk 
screening system which determines whether the individual can travel (positive assessment), or 
requires an in-person assessment (negative). These programs have been introduced by peer 
countries such as Australia and the U.S., but have not yet been implemented by Canada.27 In these 
                                                           
25 Potential Elements of Perimeter Security Deal Garners Strong Support and Canadians have Reservations about 
Aspects of Perimeter Security Deal. www.cic.gc.ca/english/resources/research/scan/march2011/index.asp 
26 actionplan.gc.ca/eng/feature.asp?pageId=337 
27 Discussion regarding the development of a Canadian Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) program is currently 
underway. In the Action Plan on Perimeter Security and Economic Competitiveness, Canada committed to implementing an 
enhanced approach to identifying and interdicting inadmissible persons at the perimeter, including establishing an eTA 
 
46 
countries, the travel authorization is used as ‘limited’ screening tool for low-risk countries which 
either have the legal status of a visa (as in the case of Australia), or is used to affirm eligibility to 
travel under visa-exempt status (as in the case of the U.S.). In principle, the electronic travel 
authorization tool addresses dual objectives: facilitation of travel, by enabling residents of certain 
countries to go through a less demanding process of obtaining a travel authorization; and 
protection, by enabling the screening of all travelers to some degree.  
Strengths:  
 Efficiency and program integrity – Some anecdotal evidence from the literature review 
suggests that the introduction of an electronic system reduced the workload in visa offices in 
Australia, as some of applicants are now processed through electronic means. This enables 
officers to process visitor visa applications from clients who are required to complete a 
traditional visa application more quickly and/or devote more attention to complex 
applications. Evidence also suggests that processing at the POE is more efficient as a greater 
number of applicants would be ‘known’ at the time of entry as their data will be available 
through an electronic record, and could therefore be processed more quickly upon entry. 
 Ease of application process – Some evidence from the literature review suggests that these 
programs contribute to the facilitation of travel as the client benefits from ability to do the 
process on-line.  
 Less of a bilateral irritant – Evidence suggests that this requirement resulted in a lower level 
of criticism from affected countries in Europe compared to the introduction of a visa 
requirement. The eTA could be used to complement granting visa exemptions in situations 
where some potential risks may exist, yet facilitation would be beneficial for other reasons. As 
the Australian experience shows, introduction of such an approach was received favourably by 
countries granted an exemption from the traditional visa process.  
 Increased coverage - In the Canadian context, an electronic travel authorization could 
address potential screening gaps that exist for visa exempt countries, specifically, individuals 
from these countries that pose a risk to Canada. This has the benefit of preventing some 
inadmissible travellers from arriving in Canada, where detention, removal costs and social costs 
could be incurred. The literature review was not able to determine whether the Australia ETA 
has been successful in actually reducing these risks. 
Challenges:  
 Information privacy concerns – Evidence from the literature review suggests that there is 
not a full understanding or discussion (with exception of the EU) of the privacy issues with the 
move to electronic system of visa provision; however, issues such as identity theft and function 
expansion have been raised as concerns. It was also mentioned that this may increase with the 
collection of biometric information in the future. 
 Quality of decision – The decision generated by the electronic system will only be as strong as 
the data entered in the systems, especially as it relates to information collected and provided by 
other countries. Furthermore, reliance on electronic decision-making, as opposed to 
face-to-face and paper assessment, reduces the human aspect of decision-making (e.g.; 
                                                                                                                                                                                     
system, to improve screening of all visa-exempt foreign nationals. This initiative will mirror measures taken in the US 
through its Electronic System for Travel Authorization system. 
 
47 
suspicions about an applications intentions and demeanour based on contact with the file or in 
person). In addition, in the Canadian context, the decision to grant a visitor visa is delegated to 
Minister and its representatives and, at this point, does not include an electronic means of 
decision rendering.  
 Reliance on IT systems – With shift to electronic service provision, IT security and 
interoperability have become continuing and grown concern due to the complexity/cost of 
implementation (reliance on costly external experts/consultants) and the continued need for 
information sharing across jurisdictions. 
 Additional requirement – If the eTA is introduced on countries that are currently visa 
exempt, it may be perceived as an imposition on travellers. This was not the case in Australia, 
which has a universal visa requirement. In such cases, the eTA appears to be more of a 
facilitation mechanism. However if the eTA is introduced for countries that are currently visa 
exempt, the eTA operates as an additional screening mechanism rather than facilitation tool.  
Overall, given the limited information to date on the effectiveness of the eTA, it is unclear whether 
its introduction in Canada would improve travel for those countries that are currently visa-free, 
although it would provide an additional screening mechanism for those countries. It could also 
facilitate travel from some lower-risk countries that currently require a visa if it was used as an 
alternative. Evidence from the Australian and US program has shown that these programs are an 
effective tool for identifying some inadmissible travellers and those using lost/stolen/fraudulent 
travel documents. As the introduction of an eTA system is not expected to take place over the next 
2-3 years, in the near future, the traditional visitor visa will remain the primary tool for managed 
migration for the immediate future.  
Alternatives to protecting the integrity of the immigration system  
The Visitor Visa Program is intended to protect the integrity of the immigration system. In 
interviews biometrics and exit controls were the most frequently mentioned alternatives to 
achieving this objective.  
 Biometrics: The use of biometrics is seen by many countries as a complementary tool for 
management of the temporary movement of migrants. It has dual objectives: the facilitation of 
travel for bona fide travellers by enabling them to be screened faster at the POEs and increased 
precision in identifying those that may pose a risk to Canada. There are, however, implications 
in terms of: client privacy, especially if biometrics collection is done by commercial service 
providers such as VACs; IT reliance; system interoperability; and the quality of data associated 
with its implementation.28  
 Exit Controls: Some interviewees noted that implementing an exit control system would be 
one way of measuring how effective Canada is managing temporary travel. Exit controls would 
enable Canada to create a record of when a temporary resident leaves Canada, which would 
provide more up-to-date information on irregular migration trends (overstays, etc.). Exit 
controls could be an effective measurement/monitoring tool and provide information on 
overstays as a good indicator of non-compliance. In the Action Plan on Perimeter Security and 
Economic Competitiveness, Canada and the United States committed to developing a system, by 
                                                           
28 With the passage of the Protecting Canada’s Immigration System Act on June 29, 2012, the Government of Canada will be 
able to require biometric information from certain applicants starting in 2013 as part of the visitor visa, study, and work 
permit application process. However, given the costs, biometrics will only be implemented for select countries. 
 
48 
June 30, 2014, to exchange biographical information on the entry of travellers, at the common 
land border, including citizens, permanent residents and third-country nationals, such that a 
record of entry into one country could be considered as a record of an exit from the other. 
Canada also committed to developing a system to establish exit for air travel, similar to that in 
the United States, under which airlines will be required to submit their passenger manifest 
information on outbound international flights. 
Alternatives to protecting the integrity of the asylum system  
The Visitor Visa Program has as an objective to protect the integrity of the asylum system. The 
following examines alternatives in achieving this objective: 
 Safe Third Country Agreement: Safe Third Country agreements require people making 
asylum claims to do so in the first safe country they arrive to. This option would reduce the 
number of asylum claims for those who are transiting through other countries but would not 
address the number of claimants coming directly from their country of origin; therefore, it 
would be only partially effective in lowering number of asylum claims made in Canada.  
 Reform of Canada’s asylum system: As stated by the Auditor General of Canada in its 2003 
report, delays in rendering final decisions on asylum claims can leave the system open to abuse. 
Long processing times encourage potential unfounded asylum claimants to make claims 
knowing that they will be able to live and work in Canada for many years. To address this 
weakness, the Government has initiated a broad reform of Canada’s asylum system aiming to 
shortening the time it takes to process claims.29 If the claims are processed more quickly, the 
potential for abuse should diminish. However, as the full implementation of reforms to the 
asylum system is yet to be completed, its potential effectiveness in improving the integrity of 
the asylum system is not yet known. With time, however, it is presumed that this reform will 
address some of the issues related to the integrity of the system.  
 Safe Country of Origin: One of the strategies under the reform of Canada’s asylum system 
that could also be considered independently is the designation of certain countries as “Safe 
Country of Origin”. Nationals from those countries would be able to make asylum claims, but 
they would be processed in an expedited manner. As it has not yet been fully implemented, it is 
difficult to determine how effective this approach would be in improving the integrity of the 
asylum system.  
While all the above approaches could be effective in addressing asylum system integrity, their 
effectiveness cannot currently be measured, given the changes underway in the asylum system.  
A review of all the above mechanisms suggest that while alternatives to policymaking, 
implementation and protecting system integrity exist, the visitor visa remains the most effective 
tool to manage migration at the current time and for the near future. The evidence-based approach 
provides for targeted and flexible changes, and while the ETA is considered the most likely 
potential alternative for many years to come it will complement the visitor visa approach. In 
addition, in terms of approaches to address system integrity, all of these could, theoretically, play a 
role in addressing system integrity; they will all take time to be fully implemented. Implementing an 
                                                           
29 Bill C-11, the Balanced Refugee Reform Act, which received Royal Assent on June 29, 2010, and Bill C-31, the Protecting 
Canada’s Immigration System Act, which received Royal Assent on June 29, 2012, were introduced to protect and improve 
Canada’s immigration system. Among several measures are changes to accelerate the processing of asylum claims and 
the introduction of Designated Countries of Origin. 
 
49 
exit control system would be one way of improving and measuring how effective Canada manages 
its temporary travel. Currently, most countries have a mix of migration control tools that include 
visas, eTA tool as a visa alternative for selected lower-risk countries and general country-level 
exemptions. As the literature review points out, the immediate future is likely to involve a hybrid 
system rooted in country-level exemptions (determined at the national or, in the European case, regional level) 
complemented by selective exemption from full applications approaches. Decisions to adopt one or more of 
these tools are predicated upon an assessment of their risks and benefits by each country.   
 
50 
4. Conclusions and recommendations  
Relevance/alternatives 
The visitor visa is a relevant tool as it addresses the need to manage the movement of temporary 
residents. It remains widely used by peer countries and, in the majority of cases, Canada’s visa 
exemption list aligns with its peers. This creates an environment where Canada facilitates travel, 
while preventing the entry of travellers that could pose risks to the integrity of the immigration and 
asylum system, and the safety and health of Canadians.  
While potential alternatives to Canada’s visitor visa exist, such as an electronic travel authorization 
(eTA) system, the visitor visa will remain the most effective tool to manage migration until other 
tools are further investigated / implemented and their effectiveness is assessed.  
Recommendation #1: Canada should continue using the visitor visa as a tool to manage migration, 
while at the same time, investigate the feasibility of introducing supplementary tools to better meet its objectives 
(protection and facilitation). In doing so, CIC should take into account the benefits, risks and resource needs 
associated with implementing each option.  
Performance 
Policy  
Monitoring and evidence from country reviews are used, as required, to support visa policy 
recommendations and the regulatory process. However, the visitor visa program, as currently 
designed, focuses on CIC’s own objectives and does not take a whole-of-government approach. 
While the policy process seeks input of relevant other government departments, there is a need to 
improve their involvement and participation in analysis and decision-making processes.  
Recommendation #2: CIC should assess, with its federal government partners, the strengths and 
weaknesses of the current partner engagement strategy in visa policy development, to address their needs and 
concerns and gauge the feasibility of broadening the considerations during the visa review process, towards an 
increased whole-of-government approach. 
Processing  
The evaluation presented recent CIC efforts to introduce or expand various facilitative 
mechanisms, such as VACs, multiple entry visas, long-term visas, and the business express 
program, in order to streamline the processing of applications. Those initiatives have the purpose 
of creating streamlined processes to make it easier for clients to visit Canada and reduce resource 
utilization at CIC. As these are fairly new initiatives, the evaluation did not assess their effectiveness 
at this time.  
In addition, the evaluation reviewed the role of the VAC in supporting processing in Mexico, 
identified some benefits but also the importance of undertaking performance and contract reviews 
to ensure compliance. With expansion of the VAC network in the world, CIC is relying increasingly 
on a variety of third-party organizations to support the TRV process. The expansion of VAC to a 
global network is a new initiative and creates new opportunities and possible challenges.  
 
51 
With continued expansion of the VAC network, CIC is increasingly relying on a variety of 
third-party organizations to support the TRV process. The expansion of VAC to a global network 
is a new initiative and creates new opportunities and possible challenges.  
Recommendation #3: CIC should develop strategy and assessment tools to measure the impact of the 
various facilitative mechanisms, in terms of their objectives and effectiveness in managing processing demands. 
This should also include an assessment of the VAC network and its effectiveness in assisting the modernizing 
of CIC operations.  
Integrity of the immigration and asylum systems  
The visitor visa is an effective tool that helps protect the integrity of CIC’s immigration and asylum 
system by reducing irregular migration (primarily unfounded refugee claims), and potentially 
playing a deterrence role. Measuring the overall impact of the visa on irregular migration is 
challenging due to lack of data on certain indicators (i.e. overstays, illegally working in Canada, etc.). 
Recommendation #4: CIC should explore other, more effective methods of collecting data on irregular 
migration, such as overstays, to better inform policy-makers about the success of the program in achieving its 
immigration and asylum system integrity objectives. 

 
53 
Appendix A: Evaluation matrix 
Evaluation Issues Indicator Methodology 
Relevance   
1. Is there a continued need for 
temporary resident (visitor) 
visas and related 
regulations30? 
 Key stakeholders identify continued need for visa policy framework 
 Alignment with international trends governing visa policy frameworks   
 Evidence of need to control temporary resident movement (e.g. program integrity, 
health, safety and security, etc.) 
 Interviews 
 Document Review 
 Administrative data 
 Review of selected countries’ 
visa policies 
 Case Studies  
2. Are the objectives of the visa 
policy framework consistent 
with GoC and CIC priorities 
and objectives? 
 Alignment/consistency of visa policy framework with GoC objectives with respect to 
migration and security 
 Alignment/consistency of visa policy framework objectives/outcomes with GoC/CIC 
priorities (IRPA, Strategic outcomes (SO4), Program Outcome (4.2)) 
 Document Review  
 Interviews (CIC) 
3. Is there an appropriate 
division of roles and 
responsibilities in making 
visitor visa 
recommendations/ 
regulations? 
 Appropriateness of the roles and responsibilities of CIC program partners and OGD 
stakeholders  
 Perceived and self-reported level of CIC program partner and OGD stakeholder 
understanding with respect to roles, responsibilities and objectives 
 Document Review 
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs) 
Performance   
Policy   
4. To what extent do ongoing 
country monitoring processes 
capture relevant and timely 
data to support 
recommendations? 
 Evidence and appropriateness of monitoring criteria (targets, thresholds, etc.) 
 Variety, type and frequency of data collected 
 Appropriateness of processes for country reviews (timeliness, use of established 
thresholds and targets)  
 Document Review 
 Administrative data  
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs, WG 
members) 
                                                           
30 Temporary Resident Visa regulations includes country- and document-based exemptions found in Sections 190(1), 190(2) and 190(2.1) of the Immigration and Refugee 
Protection Regulations 
 
54 
Evaluation Issues Indicator Methodology 
 Degree to which country reviews are planned vs. ad hoc  
 Evidence of adoption of new methodology, tools, and approaches used in country reviews 
based on experience/lessons learned 
 Interviews with field staff (as 
appropriate) 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
5. Are CIC program partners and 
stakeholders engaged and 
collaborating to inform visa 
recommendations? 
 Evidence of mechanisms to engage CIC program partners and stakeholders 
(informal/formal communications, working groups, MOUs, etc.) 
 CIC program partners and stakeholders’ perceptions regarding the appropriateness, 
timeliness, usefulness, and quality of engagement mechanisms 
 Degree to which engagement with CIC program partners and stakeholders is consultative 
and reciprocal 
 Document Review  
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs) 
 Interviews with Working 
Group members 
6. Is evidence from ongoing 
monitoring and country 
reviews used to support 
country-level visa 
recommendations? 
 Degree to which country review findings are used to inform recommendations and 
regulations 
 Number of recommendations on lifting/imposing visa requirements made with/without 
country review process 
 Number of recommendations on lifting visa requirements made with/without technical 
visit 
 CIC program partners and OGD stakeholders’ perception regarding the degree to which 
visa recommendations are based on evidence 
 Document Review (RIASs, 
PMEPs, IRPA Regulations, 
Canada Gazette) 
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs) 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008)   
Implementation   
7. Are the information needs of 
external stakeholders being 
met? 
 Number of communication materials published (press releases, etc.) and outreach 
activities conducted 
 Information sharing processes, timelines, schedules  
 Stakeholders’ perceptions about the quality/timeliness/ /clarity of communication on 
changes in regulations 
 Document Review (Media) 
 Interviews (Embassies, 
International Partners) 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
8. Do CIC visa offices 
abroad/processing centers 
have the capacity to meet the 
 Perception of staff on the ability to meet demand (due to changes in regulations, 
annual/seasonal fluctuations, health and safety concerns, between temporary streams), 
by mission and VAC 
 Document Review 
 Interviews/Survey (CIC – IR) 
 
55 
Evaluation Issues Indicator Methodology 
processing demand, 
especially in response to 
changes in visa regulations? 
 Adjustment in number of FTEs to meet demand (due to changes in regulations, 
annual/seasonal fluctuations), by mission and VAC 
 Field management and staff perceptions of whether proper supports are put in place to 
support efficient processing of visitor visas (e.g. training, guides, applications, etc.) 
 Trends in case load by FTE, by mission and VAC (number of applications per person) 
 Trend in number and percentage of visitor applications received, processed and issued, 
by mission and VAC 
 Trend in inventory, by mission and VAC 
 Trend in number of decisions rendered overseas (positive, negative, withdrawn), by 
mission and VAC 
 Trend in number and percentage of visitor applications forwarded to CBSA, by mission 
and VAC 
 Trend in processing times (annual and seasonal), by mission and VAC 
 CIC (IR) staff perceptions of the impact of visa lifting/imposing on the processing of 
applications in the Temporary Resident stream (visitors, workers and/or students) 
 Administrative data review 
(HR information) 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
Outcomes achievement   
9. To what extent does CIC’s visa 
policy 
framework/implementation 
contribute to the integrity of 
Canada’s immigration and 
asylum system? 
 Perception of CIC senior management on the impact of visa policy framework on the 
integrity of the system 
 Perception of CIC program partners and stakeholders regarding the deterrence effect of 
the visa requirement on irregular migration  
 Degree to which immigration partners (CBSA, DFAIT, RCMP, IRB, P/Ts, etc.) are impacted 
by visa regulations  
 Number and % of TRV applications refused (by reason of refusal ) 
 Trend in number of immigration violations31 and immigration violation rate (%) 
committed by visitors from visa-exempt and visa-required countries    
 Number of asylum claims from visa-exempt and visa-required countries and the 
proportion (%) relative to all asylum claims made in Canada, and evolution of trend  
 Extent of visa fraud and/or misuse (use of fraudulent documents)  
 Document Review 
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs, P/Ts 
International Partners) 
 Administrative data review 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
                                                           
31 Immigration violations include all documented infractions to Canadian immigration laws, inadmissible individuals at a Ca nadian port of entry (including for health, 
safety and security reasons) and interceptions of individuals en route to Canada. 
 
56 
Evaluation Issues Indicator Methodology 
 Degree to which costs of irregular migration (with focus on selected case study countries) 
impact Canada’s immigration and asylum systems 
10. To what extent does CIC’s visa 
policy framework/ 
implementation contribute to 
the facilitation of travel for 
bona fide travellers? 
 Number of single-entry and multiple-entry TRVs issued for visitors, students and workers 
(from selected visa-required case study countries) and % of demand 
 Trends in number of people admitted to Canada as visitors over the last 5 years (for 
selected case study countries before and after the change in regulations) 
 Stakeholders’ perceptions of impact of visa liftings/impositions on bona fide travel to 
Canada  
 Change in number of travelers from visa-required and visa-exempt countries 
 Visa acceptance rates  
 Number of temporary visitor documents issued at Ports of Entry for citizens from 
visa-exempt countries 
 Evidence of innovative approaches to deal with visitor visa pressures (e.g., VAC, Business 
Express, International Experience Canada, Transit Without Visa Program, Long Term 
Multiple Entry Visas, etc.) 
 Document Review 
 Interviews (CIC, ODGs, 
International Partners) 
 Administrative data review 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
11. Have there been any other 
impacts associated with 
visitor visa regulations? 
 Evidence of outcomes not accounted for in original plan and design (positive or negative) 
 Impact on tourism industry (positive and negative) 
 Impact of visa regulatory changes on Canada and relevant countries’ bilateral relations 
and commercial exchanges 
 Document review 
 Interviews (CIC, OGDs) 
Case Studies Mexico (2009) and 
Czech Republic (2007 & 2009), 
Taiwan (2010), Poland (2008) 
12. Are there alternative 
approaches to CIC’s visa 
policy framework that could 
meet the objectives more 
efficiently and effectively 
(facilitating travel and 
protecting borders)? 
 Comparison of Canada’s visa policy framework with other visa policy tools/regimes/ 
approaches/content (in Canada and internationally).  The following examples may be 
included in this comparison:  
 Reciprocity  
 Individual-based decisions: Australia’s eVisitor, US ESTA 
 Document or status based-exemptions  
 Note:  The scope of the comparison will be further defined with program staff at the time 
of the evaluation. 
International Comparison: 
 Document Review 
 Interviews 
 
 
 
IMMIGRATION 
Canada 
Temporary Resident 
Visa 
Visa Office 
Instructions for: 
New Delhi 
 
IMM 5881 E (12-2024) 
 
 
Table of Contents 
Document Checklist – Temporary 
Resident Visa 
This application is made available free by 
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship 
Canada and is not to be sold to applicants. 
Cette trousse est également  
disponible en français. 
 
2 
 
Application for a Temporary Resident Visa – checklist 
 This checklist should be used in conjunction with the IMM 5484 Document Checklist for 
a Temporary Resident Visa 
 Any document not in English or French must be accompanied by a translation 
 Failure to submit all required documentation may result in refusal or processing delays 
 False statements or submission of fraudulent documents will result in a refusal 
 When submitting your completed and signed application form, be sure to include 
the barcode page. 
 Please provide only photocopies of all documents, as we do not guarantee the return 
of any original documents. However, note that we reserve the right to request the 
original of any document provided. 
 Accompanying spouse and children of all ages must submit their own application forms 
Apply online 
Save time and get case updates online! 
 No courier fees or mail delivery time – we get your application instantly. 
 Avoid processing delays. Incomplete applications are returned to you. Applying online 
helps ensure your application is complete before you submit it. 
 If we need to ask for more documents, you can quickly submit them online. 
 Get updates on the status of your application directly in your online account. 
 
All applicants should submit the following documents: 
Original, valid passport, as well as a photocopy of the biodata (photo) page. 
Include all cancelled or expired passports, if applicable. The passport should be valid 
for the duration of proposed travel, as the validity of a visa cannot exceed the validity 
of the passport. 
☐ 
Minors travelling alone or with a person other than their parents or legal guardians 
should have a letter of authorization signed by both parents and legal guardians. It 
should also include the name of the adult who will be responsible for the children in 
Canada. 
Minors travelling with only one parent or legal guardian should have a letter 
of authorization from the non-accompanying parent or guardian. 
A copy of the page of the passport or other government-issued 
identification document showing the name, photo and signature of each 
non-accompanying parent should be submitted with the application. 
 
These documents should be available for presentation at the Canadian Port of 
Entry. 
 
☐ 
 
3 
 
If you have answered “yes” to any of the background information questions on the 
application form, provide a completed and signed Schedule 1 form (Application for 
Temporary Resident Visa – IMM 5257B) and include it with your application.  
☐ 
Family Information Form (IMM 5707) fully completed, dated and signed. ☐ 
Visiting family or friends: 
Note: CAN+ If you have travelled to Canada in the last ten (10) years or currently 
hold a valid United States non-immigrant visa and can provide proof (entry stamps in 
passport, proof of the valid visa), no proof of financial support is needed. 
Proof of financial support 
 Income Tax Returns for the past two years 
 Copies of bank statements or bank book covering the past six (6) months. 
 Any additional relevant documentation (employment letter, pay slips, proof of 
a pension, business registration, investments, etc.) 
☐ 
If you are not paying for your own trip: 
 Provide a letter signed by the person paying and a photocopy of their 
passport, or other official identification with a photo and a bank certificate 
proving that they have sufficient funds. 
 Describe how this person is related to you. 
 These documents must be dated within three months of the date on which the 
application is submitted. 
☐ 
If you are employed: 
A signed original letter on company letterhead from your employer granting 
leave of absence. This letter must include the following information: 
 your name and position; 
 your current salary; 
 your date of hire; 
 your employer’s name, address and telephone number. 
☐ 
If you are retired: 
A retirement certificate indicating the amount of your pension. ☐ 
 
4 
 
Information on the inviter in Canada 
 Letter of invitation from the inviter indicating the purpose and duration of the 
visit; 
 A list showing the number of people in the inviter’s household; 
 A copy of the inviter’s immigration status or citizenship documents; 
 Proof of inviter’s income and financial situation including but not limited to 
Notice of Assessments (NOA), employment letters, pay stubs, bank 
statements; 
 If the inviter is a student, a letter of acceptance or good standing from the 
school. 
 If visiting family, proof of relationship with the inviter in Canada (examples: 
copy of birth certificate, copy of marriage certificate, etc.) 
☐ 
Tourists: 
Detailed itinerary including proof of air ticket and hotel booking. ☐ 
Proof of financial support 
 Income Tax Returns for the past two years 
 Copies of bank statements or bank book covering the past six (6) months 
 Any additional relevant documentation (employment letter, pay slips, proof of 
a pension, business registration, investments, etc.) 
☐ 
If you are not paying for your own trip: 
 Provide a letter signed by the person paying and a photocopy of their 
passport, or other official identification with a photo and a bank certificate 
proving that they have sufficient funds. 
 Describe how this person is related to you. 
 These documents must be dated within three months of the date on which the 
application is submitted. 
☐ 
If you are employed: 
A signed original letter on company letterhead from your employer granting 
leave of absence. This letter must include the following information: 
 your name and position; 
 your current salary; 
 your date of hire; 
your employer’s name, address and telephone number 
☐ 
If you are retired: 
A retirement certificate indicating the amount of your pension. ☐ 
If you are a student travelling outside of school holidays: 
An original letter from your school confirming that you are enrolled and in good 
standing and the school has approved your absence. 
☐ 
Proof of previous travel (previous passports) ☐ 
 
5 
 
Super Visa: 
(If you are visiting children or grandchildren who are citizens or permanent 
residents of Canada for an extended stay of up to 2 years) 
Required Documents from the applicant:  
Evidence of private medical insurance 
 From a CANADIAN insurance company; 
 Valid for a minimum of 1 year from the date of entry; 
 Provides minimum $100,000 coverage. 
☐ 
Proof of having undergone a medical examination from one of the 
panel physicians. 
You must inform the panel physician that you intend to be a visitor to Canada. 
When visiting the panel physician, you will be required to bring the following 
documents: 
 5 photos meeting the photograph specifications. 
 Photo identification 
 a photocopy of your passport bio-data page. 
 
After the completion of your medical examination, the panel physician will provide you 
with one copy of your medical examination form. Submit this form with your super 
visa application. 
☐ 
Required documents from your inviter: 
 A written and signed invitation letter promising financial support for the 
duration of your visit. 
 A list showing the number of people in the inviter’s household. 
 A copy of the inviter’s citizenship or immigration status document. 
 
Proof of the inviter’s ability to provide promised financial support including but 
not limited to: 
 Notice of Assessment (NOA) for the past three tax years; 
 employment letter identifying salary, 
 pay stubs, bank statements, etc. 
 
☐ 
Business:  
(company-to-company international business activities, trade shows, attending 
conferences) 
 
6 
 
Company to company international business activities: 
Invitation letter must come from the party in Canada with whom you will conduct 
direct business. This letter must include: 
 the company name; 
 full name of the inviter and title; 
 business address, email, website address, telephone and fax numbers; 
 a brief summary of the reasons for the invitation including: 
o details of the business activities; 
o duration of the trip; 
o statement specifying who will be responsible for all expenses related to 
the trip. 
 
Letter from your employer, confirming the following: 
 your employment and title; 
 the purpose of your trip; 
 the full name of the company; 
 company contact, address, telephone and fax number. 
☐ 
If you are attending a trade show or other business conference: 
 A letter from the conference organizer confirming your registration; 
 Letter from your employer, confirming: 
o your employment and title; 
o the purpose of your trip; 
o who is covering the expenses; 
o the full name of the company; 
o company contact, address, telephone and email. 
☐ 
If you are travelling on an official passport, an official note from the Indian Ministry of 
External Affairs supporting the intended visit. ☐ 
Bank documents showing financial history over several months, along with supporting 
evidence of employment, such as income tax returns and pay stubs. ☐ 
Returning students holding a valid study permit: 
Proof of good standing at the school where you are studying, such as: 
 Transcripts showing academic performance 
 Tuition receipts 
 Letter of good standing and anticipated return. 
☐ 
Returning workers holding a valid work permit: 
 
7 
 
Signed letter from your employer in Canada confirming ongoing employment. This 
letter must include: 
 your employer’s name and address; 
 your employer’s telephone and fax number; 
 Your position; 
 Your salary; 
 Your date of hire. 
☐ 
Supporting evidence of this employment such as pay stubs and bank statements. ☐ 
Seamen: 
Copy of Seamen’s Book. ☐ 
Employment contract, agreement or a letter from the foreign shipping company or 
employer with contact information. ☐ 
Invitation letter from the Canadian shipping agent. ☐ 
Reference letter from the local Indian shipping agent. ☐ 
Religious workers: 
Invitation letter from Host organization in Canada. ☐ 
Letters of reference from organizations in India. ☐ 
Supporting evidence of religious work or training. ☐ 
Income tax returns for the past two years. ☐ 
Bank documents showing financial history for the past 6 months. ☐ 
Short-term studies (6 months or less): 
 A copy of the Letter of Acceptance from the Admissions or Registrar’s Office 
of a Canadian school showing the exact amount of tuition fees you are 
required to pay, the anticipated start and end dates and the latest date you 
may register. 
 Tuition receipts if paid. 
☐ 
A copy of the highest diploma you have obtained. ☐ 
For organized study groups, an invitation letter with details of the program, a list of 
participants and an indication of who will be paying the associated fees and expenses. ☐ 
 
8 
 
Signed original parental employment letters issued by the employer on company 
letterhead indicating position, salary and date of hire of your parents. 
 
☐ 
Original bank documents showing financial history over several months (for example: 
Certificates of Deposit, bank books, etc.) ☐ 
Persons transiting through Canada: 
A copy of your air ticket and travel itinerary. Please indicate the number of times you 
will be entering Canada, and the dates and times for each entry and exit. ☐ 
A valid visa for the country of your final destination, if applicable. ☐ 
A letter of invitation from the inviter in the country of destination or a letter of intent 
stating the purpose of your trip. ☐ 
If you are employed, a letter from your employer on company letterhead granting 
your leave of absence and including the following information: 
 your name, 
 position, 
 current salary, and 
 date of hire. 
☐ 
 
 
Temporary Immigration:
Visa and Visitor Policy
Fundamental Brief
Background
• Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) and its partners work 
collaboratively to facilitate the legitimate movement of people by managing 
access to Canada.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada
Policy Lead
Canada Border 
Services Agency
Enforcement
Global Affairs 
Canada
International Relations
Innovation, Science 
and Economic 
Development Canada
Tourism Strategy
• Immigration screening is a critical tool used to manage entry to Canada, 
helping to facilitate genuine travelers; protect the health, safety, and security of 
Canadians; and maintain public confidence in the immigration program.
2
Visa and 
Visitor Policy
How Immigration Screening Works
• All visitors to Canada must undergo immigration screening.
• However, the type of screening depends on the level of risk posed by a visitor: 
lower-risk visitors can apply online for an electronic travel authorization; 
higher-risk visitors must apply for a temporary resident visa.
• This level of risk is determined by nationality.
Electronic Travel Authorization 
Applies to 54 visa-exempt countries*
Temporary Resident Visa
Applies to majority of countries
• Light-touch screening
• Apply online
• Most applications automatically approved 
in minutes
• Screens for immigration history
• Cost: $7
• Comprehensive screening
• Supporting documents required (passport, 
bank statements) 
• Requires biometrics
• Screens for traveler intent
• Approved in weeks
• Cost: $185 ($100 temporary resident visa 
+ $85 biometrics fee)
3
Visa and 
Visitor Policy
United Kingdom, France, Germany, and 
Mexico are the top source countries for 
electronic travel authorizations.
China, India, and Brazil are the top visa-
required source countries. 
*United States citizens and certain other small groups are exempt from the electronic travel authorization requirement.
Making Visa Policy Decisions
Canada’s Visa Policy Framework
• Decisions regarding countries who do or do not need a temporary resident visa 
are guided by Canada’s Visa Policy Framework, which assesses over 40 
criteria (e.g., migration trends, social and economic factors, border control).
• Visa policy decisions seek to balance the benefits of facilitated travel, including 
trade and tourism benefits, with risks to the safety and security of Canadians.
Visa policy decisions require careful management
• A visa exemption communicates a message of trust and partnership; an 
imposition is perceived as damaging to a country’s global standing. 
• These decisions have measurable impacts on trade, investment, and 
cooperation with other countries regarding Canada’s priorities on the 
international stage.
4
Visa and 
Visitor Policy
Current Status
More and more people want to visit Canada
• Canada attracts more visitors each year, with volumes expected to grow 
by 8-10% annually for the foreseeable future. Other temporary entry 
categories (e.g., international students, foreign workers) are also seeing 
significant growth.
• This presents an important opportunity for Canada as international 
tourism currently generates approximately $22.1B each year.
5
IRCC’s Visa Processing Capacity
• Approximately 3.9 million electronic travel authorization and 2.4 million temporary 
resident visa applications were received in 2018.
• Increasing application volumes are straining IRCC’s capacity to process visas within 
service standards (14 days) – the current average visa processing time is 22 days.
• Processing times will continue to rise, running the risk that competitor countries may 
advance digital services more quickly.
Application Processing
 Travel
 Arrival and Departure
Visa and 
Visitor Policy
Key Takeaways
6
Visa and 
Visitor Policy
• IRCC and its partners manage access to Canada 
using immigration screening as a critical tool to help 
protect the health, safety, and security of Canadians. 
• All visitors are screened based on the level of risk 
they pose to Canada, with lower-risk visitors receiving 
a lighter touch. This risk is determined by nationality.
• The visa’s broad, nationality-based approach remains 
an effective screening tool for higher-risk visitors, but 
balancing foreign policy, economic, and security 
considerations is challenging.
• Canada is attracting more visitors each year. This 
growth in application volumes is challenging IRCC’s 
processing capacity, and it is expected that 
processing times will continue to exceed the 
Department’s 14-day service standard without 
intervention. 
• Briefings on modernizing and transforming services 
and keeping pace with volumes are expected.
Ways to improve your score:
• at least 12 months of skilled work experience 
in managerial (TEER 0), professional (TEER 1), 
technical occupations or skilled trades (TEER 2 
and 3) in Canada
• strong language skills, supported by an approved 
language test
• Canadian secondary or post-secondary diploma/
certificate/degree, or the foreign equivalent
If you obtained educational credentials in Canada, 
you may receive up to 30 additional points.
It is not mandatory to have a job offer or a 
provincial nomination to complete an Express Entry 
profile or to obtain an invitation to apply. 
However, a qualifying job offer or a provincial 
nomination will give you additional points in the 
CRS. This increases your chances of being invited  
to apply.
Visit Canada.ca/ExpressEntry.
Provinces and territories 
can also nominate you
Most provinces and territories in Canada can 
nominate immigrants who want to settle there 
through the Provincial Nominee Program (PNP). 
Some can nominate you through Express Entry.
International students with recent Canadian 
education and/or work experience may be eligible 
for the PNP . Criteria vary between each province 
and territory.
You must apply directly to a province or territory to 
be considered under their PNP . Check the website 
of the province or territory you are interested in to 
learn more about being nominated.
Other pathways to 
permanent residence
There are other options for international students 
who want to stay in Canada. 
Visit Canada.ca/come-to-Canada to learn what 
other programs you might be eligible for.
CANADA.CA/EXPRESSENTRY 
International students have the education, skills and experience that Canada is looking for. 
Express Entry has program options for graduates with eligible work experience. To learn 
more about studying, working and living in Canada after you graduate, visit Canada.ca/
international-students. 
Pathway for students to stay in Canada permanently after graduation
Immigration is a multi-step process and takes time. The following diagram outlines the general steps to 
becoming a permanent resident through the programs managed under the Express Entry system. To learn 
more, visit Canada.ca/ExpressEntry.
Prepare for Express Entry
Step 1
• Apply for a study permit.
• Complete your studies in a post-graduation work permit–eligible program. Check the designated 
learning institutions list to confirm program eligibility. 
Step 2
• Apply for a post-graduation work permit or another type of work permit (Temporary Foreign Worker 
Program, Francophone Mobility, etc.).
• Gain one year of full-time paid skilled Canadian work experience (for instance, in managerial, 
professional or technical occupations, or skilled trades). Refer to the National Occupational Classification 
codes for more information on the experience, language skills, job offer and education level required. 
• You can learn about the Canadian labour market with Canada’s Job Bank and register to look for jobs  
in Canada. 
• Take a language test in English and/or French. If you do have any education outside of Canada, you may 
also need to have it assessed for equivalency in Canada. 
EXPRESS ENTRY
International students
How to apply for permanent residence in Canada
© His Majesty the King in Right of Canada, as represented by 
the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration, 2024.
Cat. No. Ci4-259/2024E
ISBN 978-0-660-70099-1  
IRCC 3564-02-2024
How Express Entry works
Express Entry manages applications for permanent 
residence under these federal economic 
immigration programs:
• Canadian experience class
• Federal Skilled Worker Program
• federal skilled trades class
Provinces and territories can also recruit 
candidates from Express Entry through their 
Provincial Nominee Programs to meet local labour 
market needs.
To be eligible for Express Entry, you need to meet 
the criteria of at least one of these programs.
If you meet the minimum criteria, you will be 
placed into the Express Entry pool and ranked 
using the CRS. The CRS awards points based 
on various factors from your profile, including 
language ability, education, skills and experience.
The highest ranked candidates in the pool are 
invited to apply for permanent residence during 
general rounds of invitations. In program-specific 
rounds of invitations, we invite only those  
top-ranking candidates eligible for a specific 
program. For category-based rounds, we invite 
those top-ranking candidates eligible for a specific 
category. You can learn more by visiting Canada.
ca/ExpressEntry.
There may be other requirements to work in your 
field in Canada, apart from your degree. Visit 
Canada.ca/newcomerservices to find resources 
that will help you find work in Canada.
Do you speak French?
You can get an additional 50 points in the CRS if 
you have strong French language skills. You may 
be invited to the Express Entry round of invitations 
based on your French language proficiency. French 
is one of Canada’s 2 official languages. People 
speak it across Canada. From coast to coast to 
coast, there are many vibrant and welcoming 
Francophone communities with interesting  
job opportunities.
The ability to speak both French and English 
in one of these communities could give you a 
strong advantage over unilingual candidates 
with equivalent skills, as you may be able to 
serve clients in both languages or possibly help 
employers tap into new markets.
As a permanent resident, you can take free 
language courses and access other services in 
French to help you settle in your new community. 
Learn about living in Canada as a French-speaker 
by visiting Canada.ca/francoimmigration.
Note: If you are interested in immigrating to 
Quebec, you need to contact that province 
directly because Quebec manages its own 
economic immigration programs.
Apply for Express Entry
Step 3
• Create your Express Entry profile and provide all required documents.
• Get accepted into the Express Entry pool. If you meet the criteria of one of the programs under Express Entry, 
you will be placed in a pool of pre-screened candidates.
Step 4
You may be invited to apply if you are eligible for one of the programs in Express Entry and among the top 
ranked in the round.
The Comprehensive Ranking System
To support the economic goals we identified, 
we’re introducing rounds of invitations for specific 
categories of Express Entry candidates.
We rank candidates in the pool using a points-
based system called the Comprehensive Ranking 
System (CRS).
The candidates with the highest score in the pool 
based on the CRS will then be invited to apply for 
permanent residence during a round of invitations. 
Invitation rounds happen regularly throughout  
the year.
What are National Occupational  
Classification codes?
A National Occupational Classification code is a 
5-digit number used to classify Canadian jobs. 
These codes are categorized by Training, Education, 
Experience, and Responsibilities (TEER) categories.
Work experience for immigration programs 
managed by Express Entry are under these  
4 categories: TEER 0, 1, 2 or 3.
TEER 0 – management jobs
TEER 1 – professional jobs (require university 
degree)
TEER 2 – supervisor jobs, technical jobs and skilled 
trades (require college diploma, or apprenticeship 
training of more than 2 years)
TEER 3 – jobs that require a college certificate or 
apprenticeship training of less than 2 years, or 
more than 6 months of on-the-job training
Express Entry System 
Technical Briefing 
• Overview of Express Entry system 
– How it works 
– Comprehensive Ranking System 
– Invitation to Apply  
– Provincial Nominee Program 
2 
As of January 1st, 2015, skilled foreign workers have access to 
Express Entry – a new electronic application management 
system – which applies to Canada’s key economic immigration 
programs: 
– Federal Skilled Worker Program (FSWP); 
– Federal Skilled Trades Program (FSTP); 
– Canadian Experience Class (CEC); and, 
– A portion of the Provincial Nominee Program (PNP). 
Express Entry does not change or replace the requirements of these 
immigration programs. 
 
 
3 
Background 

Moving from the old system… 
 
 
 
• First applicant in, first to be processed 
• Difficult to navigate the immigration 
system due to multiple players 
• Recruitment of global talent at employer 
time and expense 
• Average of 12-14 months to process an 
application 
4 
Express Entry: Changes how Canada selects skilled immigrants 
to Express Entry 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• CIC selects candidates that are most likely to 
succeed in Canada, rather than the first in line 
• Express Entry candidates with a valid job offer or 
P/T nomination will quickly be invited to apply (ITA) 
for permanent residence 
• Later in 2015 (exact date TBC), the new Job Bank 
will connect Canadian employers with a pool of 
skilled foreign national candidates if they can’t find 
Canadians or permanent residents to do the job  
• Express Entry candidates will benefit from 
processing times of six months or less*. 
*In 80% of cases from receipt of complete application for 
permanent residence to final decision.  
5 
The New Two-Step Application Process: Candidate  

• Candidates can promote themselves:  
- They are encouraged to signal their presence in the 
Express Entry pool to recruiters, on private sector job 
boards, participate in job fairs, contact Canadian 
employers directly, etc.  
- Registration with Job Bank is required unless a 
candidate has a valid job offer or PT nomination 
6 
Step 1: Express Entry Profile 
• All candidates in the Express Entry pool are assigned a score according 
to their skills, education and experience 
• Candidates profiles can remain in the pool for up to 1 year 
– At the one year mark, candidates will be asked if they would like to 
resubmit their profile 
– Candidates can update their profiles at any time if their 
circumstances change, which may change their score 
 
 
 
 
 
 
• Candidates in the pool are ranked against others in the pool according 
to their score  
• CIC will issue Invitations to Apply to those candidates ranked highest at 
a given time from the pool (frequency and volumes to be determined) 
 
 
7 
Express Entry Pool 

• The Comprehensive Ranking System (CRS) is a scoring 
mechanism tied to best predictors of economic success 
• The CRS allows CIC to rank and sort submissions within 
in the Express Entry pool to identify the candidates 
mostly likely to achieve high employment earnings based 
on their profile (age, education, language skills, Canadian 
work experience) and/or a job offer or 
provincial/territorial nomination 
• CRS ranking allows the highest scoring Express Entry 
candidates to be invited to apply regardless of when they 
entered the Express Entry pool, instead of processing on 
a first-come, first-served basis. 
8 
What is the Comprehensive Ranking System (CRS) and 
why is it necessary? 
The CRS is divided into four components: 
1. A core set of human capital factors that drive economic 
outcomes: 
• Age 
• Level of Education 
• Official Language Proficiency 
• Canadian Work Experience 
2. Spouse or Common-Law Partner factors 
3. A set of skills transferability or interaction factors that 
amplify the core set 
4. Additional points awarded for those with a PT 
nomination and/or arranged employment 
9 
CRS structure 
• Each factor is assigned a points 
scale weighted to best reflect 
evidence on outcomes 
• While the CRS is envisioned as a 
relatively stable component of the 
Express Entry system, and will be 
enabled through Ministerial 
Instructions, it may be changed 
over time as outcome data 
becomes available 
• No one can exceed a maximum of 
1200 points 
• By setting a high total the number 
of potential ties is reduced 
10 
CRS Structure 
GRAND TOTAL 
1200 1200 
4. Additional points (job offer or PT nomination) 
600 600 
3. Transferability factors 
100 100 
SUBTOTAL  
500 500 
2. Spouse or common-law  partner factors 
N/A 40 
1. Education and experience factors 
500 460 
Spouse or Common-Law Partner 
NO YES 
Job Offers* in Express Entry: 
• Candidates with a job offer or a provincial/territorial nomination are given 
additional points to ensure they are issued an Invitation to Apply (ITA). 
• They will quickly be offered an ITA for permanent residence (PR); 
• Candidates will have 60 days to submit their complete electronic application 
for permanent residence 
• At application, CIC will verify candidate eligibility and admissibility criteria  
• Express Entry candidates will benefit from processing times of six months or 
less.** 
 
11 
Step 2: Invitation to Apply (ITA) 
*A valid job offer for Express Entry must be supported by an LMIA  
**80% of cases from receipt of complete application for permanent 
residence to final decision.  
Job Offer OR 
PT 
nomination* 
• Whether an Express Entry candidate is issued an Invitation to Apply 
(ITA) is determined using a transparent, public and objective 
methodology: The Comprehensive Ranking System. 
• Ministerial Instructions will be posted online and will contain the 
date and time of each round of invitations, the number of 
candidates that receive an ITA, and if it applies, which specific 
immigration program(s) were included in the round.  
• All rounds of invitations will be based on candidates’ rank in the 
pool whether the round is for a specific immigration program or 
simply the top ranked candidates in the pool overall. 
• After each round of invitations, CIC will communicate the lowest 
points score included in the round. 
• If a candidate does not receive an ITA, they will be able to visit the 
CIC website and see how they fared against the cut off score.  
12 
Invitation to Apply Mechanics 
• Rounds of invitations will be held as needed to meet 
annual levels targets.  
• Initial expectations are that rounds of invitations will occur 
regularly throughout the year with approximately 15 to 25 
taking place overall.   
• It should be noted that the timing and the number of 
candidates invited in each round of invitations may vary, 
allowing CIC to take into account fluctuations in the labour 
market or the number of candidates in the pool etc.  
13 
Invitation to Apply Timing 
• Provincial and territorial (P/T) nominations continue 
under the new system. 
• P/Ts are able to nominate candidates who meet their 
unique regional labour market needs. 
• When an Express Entry candidate is identified through a 
PNP, they receive additional points in the ranking system 
and will be quickly invited to apply for permanent 
residence.  
• CIC will process most applications in six months or less.* 
14 
 
Provinces and Territories = Key Partners 
 
*80% of cases from receipt of complete application for 
permanent residence to final decision.  