Canada.ca Immigration and citizenship IRCC applications
Find an IRCC application package or form
FR
Search IRCC 
MENU 
 

Guide 5256 - Applying for a visitor visa
(temporary resident visa) - paper
application
 Print
Use this guide to apply for: visitor visa, transit visa, super visa
You’re seeing the instructions to apply on
paper.
Guide – Apply online.
Most people must apply online. You can only apply on paper if you can’t apply
online, including for reasons of a disability, or if you’re travelling with an identity
or travel document that was issued to a refugee, a stateless person or a non-
citizen.
Table of Contents
Overview
Before you apply

Step 1. Gather documents
Step 2. Complete the application
Step 3. Pay the fees
Step 4. Submit the application
What happens next?
Need Help?
Income Table
Temporary Resident Visa application photograph specifications
This is not a legal document. The explanations and definitions are not legal
definitions. In case of a discrepancy between the language in this document and
the relevant legislation or regulations, the legal text in the legislation and
regulations prevails. 
For legal information, refer to the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act and
Regulations or the Citizenship Act, Citizenship Regulations and Citizenship
Regulations No. 2, as applicable.
Overview
Application package
This application package has:
an instruction guide, and
the forms you need to fill out.
The instruction guide:
has information you must know before you submit your application, and
explains how to fill out the forms and gather your supporting documents.
Read the instruction guide completely and then fill out each of the applicable
forms.
The forms are designed with questions that will help the processing of your
application.
Symbols used in this guide
This guide uses these symbols to draw your attention to important information:
Note: Tips that will help you with this application.
Before you apply
Who may use this application guide?
Use this application guide if you wish to apply for a temporary resident visa from
outside Canada.
Note: The processing time of an application may vary from one visa office
to another. Find out more about application processing times.
Who are Visitors?
Visitors are persons who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents of
Canada, and are legally authorized to enter Canada to:
What you must do to have your application processed.
Important information that you need to know to avoid delays or other problems.
Where to get more information.


visit Canada on holiday (vacation),
visit family,
conduct business, etc.
Visitors are restricted in length of stay and subject to various conditions.
Do I need a Temporary Resident Visa?
Persons who are not Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada may
require a visa to enter Canada. The requirement for a visa also applies to
temporary residents who are transiting in Canada. Find out if you need an
Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) or a visitor visa.
If you do not require a visa to enter Canada, you may require an Electronic Travel
Authorization (eTA). Find out if you need an eTA.
What is a Temporary Resident Visa?
A Temporary Resident Visa (TRV), also referred to as a visitor visa, is an official
document issued by a Canadian visa office that is placed in your passport to show
that you have met the requirements for admission to Canada as a temporary
resident (either as a visitor, a student, or a worker).
Important information: You must obtain a Temporary Resident Visa (TRV)
before your departure. You cannot obtain one upon arrival in Canada.
What are the requirements you must meet for a TRV?
You must show the officer that you meet the requirements of the Immigration
and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA) and the Immigration and Refugee Protection
Regulations and that you will be in Canada for a temporary stay.
You must also:
satisfy an officer that you will leave Canada at the end of your stay,
show that you have enough money to maintain yourself and your family
members in Canada and to return home,
not intend to work or study in Canada unless authorized to do so,
be law abiding and have no record of criminal activity,
not be a risk to the security of Canada,
provide any additional document requested by the officer to establish your
admissibility, and
be in good health (complete a medical examination if required).
What if I was previously granted permanent resident
status?
If you have ever been granted permanent residence or landed immigrant status
in Canada, you may still be a permanent resident. We cannot issue you a TRV if
you are a permanent resident.
You may instead want to apply for a Permanent resident travel document. If you
meet the requirements for a travel document, you can return to Canada as a
permanent resident.
If you no longer want to be a permanent resident, or if you know you do not
meet the requirements to keep your permanent resident status, you can
voluntarily give up (renounce) your permanent resident status in order to apply
for a TRV.
Voluntary Renunciation of PR status applications must be sent in a separate
envelope by mail to the visa office.
We recommend that you apply for Voluntary Renunciation of your PR status
first, and apply for your TRV once you receive the approval of your Voluntary
Renunciation.
Entry to Canada
Important information: Entry to Canada is a privilege, not a right. You must
meet the necessary requirements and you may need a Temporary Resident Visa.
Family member definitions
Your family members include your spouse or common-law partner, your
dependent children and any children that are their dependent children.
Spouse
Refers to either of the two persons (any gender) in a marriage legally recognized
in the country in which it took place, as well as in Canada.
Common-law partner
Refers to a person who is living in a conjugal relationship with another person
(any gender), and has done so continuously for a period of at least one year. A
conjugal relationship exists when there is a significant degree of commitment
between two people.
This can be shown with evidence that the couple share the same home, support
each other financially and emotionally, have children together, or present
themselves in public as a couple.
Common-law partners who have been in a conjugal relationship for at least one
year, but are unable to live together or appear in public together because of legal
restrictions in their home country or who have been separated for reasons
beyond their control (for example, civil war or armed conflict) may still qualify
and should be included on the application.
Dependent children
The age of your children is ‘locked in’ when you make your refugee claim. This
means that if you are later able to apply for permanent residence in Canada as a
protected person, you may be able to include them in your application if they
meet the dependent children requirements below on the lock-in date:
They’re under 22 years old, and
They don’t have a spouse or common-law partner
Children 22 years old or older qualify as dependents if they meet both of these
requirements:
Proxy, telephone, fax, internet and similar forms of marriage where one or both
parties were not physically present are not considered as valid spousal
relationships under the Regulations nor are polygamous marriages. For more
information, consult our policy on the legality of a marriage.
They have depended on their parents for financial support since before the
age of 22, and
They are unable to financially support themselves because of a mental or
physical condition
With the exception of age, dependents will have to continue to meet these
requirements until processing of the application for permanent residence is
complete.
Dependent child of a dependent child
Refers to children of dependents children of the applicant and those of the
spouse or common-law partner, if applicable.
Do I have to apply separately for my family members?
Family members must complete their own application forms. However, you may
submit your applications together online or at a Visa Application Centre (VAC)
and use one payment receipt for the total amount.
Your spouse or common-law partner and children must meet all of the
requirements for temporary residence in Canada.
Are there medical requirements?
If you plan to work, visit or study in Canada for six months or less:
You usually do not need a medical exam.
If you plan to work, visit or study in Canada for more than six months:
You will need a medical exam if you:
have lived temporarily for six or more months in a row:
in any of these countries or territories
in the one year immediately before the date you want to enter Canada.
(This applies even if you are a citizen of a country that does not
need a visa to enter Canada.)
Regardless of the length of time you are in Canada, you will need a medical
exam if you wish to work in one of the following fields:
a designated occupation, such as the field of health services or with
children. Examples of designated occupations include hospital staff,
clinical laboratory workers, patient attendants in nursing and geriatric
homes, and medical and dental students admitted to attend Canadian
universities;
to work in agricultural occupations, you will need a medical exam if you
have lived in certain countries or territories.
You and your family members may need a medical exam to come to Canada. Find
out more by checking the Medical examination requirements for temporary
residents.
You may either:
have an upfront medical exam by contacting a Panel Physician; or
wait until your application is reviewed and medical instructions are given to
you by the visa office.
Get the instructions to complete the medical exam.
When medical results are submitted up front, routine cases benefit from faster
processing since we do not have to ask for them at a later date. This is done at
your own cost and does not influence the final decision on your application. If
you have an upfront medical exam, you must submit proof that you completed
the medical exam with your application. Failure to do so may result in processing
delays.
Biometrics
You may need to give your biometrics for this permit. If you need to give
biometrics, pay the biometrics fee when you apply. The fee covers the cost of
collecting fingerprints and a digital photo.
Find out if you need to give your biometrics.
How often do you give your biometrics

You only need to give your biometrics once every 10 years when you apply for a
visa or permit. However, we can’t issue a visa or permit longer than 10 years from
the last date you gave your biometrics.
Check when your biometrics expire.
When to give your biometrics
If you submit your application online or by mail.
You can give your biometrics after you:
pay for and submit your application and biometric fees, and
get a biometric instruction letter (BIL) that will direct you to a list of official
locations you may choose from.
You must provide your biometric data promptly after receiving the instruction
letter inviting you to do so.
If you submit your application in person at a visa application centre (VAC)
You may be able to book an appointment in advance to give your biometrics at
the same time that you submit your application at a VAC. If you can’t give your
biometrics when you submit your application you will have to make an
appointment at the VAC to give them at a later date.
Extend the validity of your biometrics
If you want a visa or permit for longer than 10 years from the last date you gave
your biometrics, you can choose to give your biometrics again when you apply.
You can give your biometrics again even if they’re still valid.
Follow these steps when you apply for your visa or permit:
1. Pay the biometrics fee when you apply.
2. Wait for your biometric instruction letter (BIL). You must use the BIL that
was issued for this application.
3. Book an appointment and visit an official biometric collection location to
give your biometrics again.
Where to give your biometrics
You need to book an appointment to give your biometrics at one of these
official biometric collection service points.
We’ll start processing your application after we get your biometrics.
Can I work or study during my stay in Canada?
Visitors are not allowed to work or study in Canada unless they are authorized to
do so under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations. In many cases, a
work or study permit will be required.
A temporary resident may also take a program of study up to six months
duration without having to obtain a study permit.
Information about the parent and grandparent super visa
About the super visa
The multiple-entry super visa allows parents and grandparents to
enter Canada multiple times
stay in Canada for a period of 5 years on each entry
Important information: Applicants who do not normally require a visa to
enter Canada must also submit an application to a visa office. See the section
below for visa-exempt applicants.
Who may apply for a super visa?
To apply for a super visa, you must either be the parent or grandparent of a
Canadian citizen or a permanent resident of Canada.
You cannot include your dependent children in this application. If your spouse or
common-law partner want to come with you, they also need to submit an
application.
How do I apply for a super visa?
To apply for a super visa, you need to submit an application to a visa office and
provide
a letter of invitation written and signed by your child or grandchild
promising financial support for the entire duration of your stay in Canada
You must also include your host child or host grandchild’s family
composition (dependents, including spouse, children or other relatives
that are financially dependent on your host child or host grandchild).
one of the following documents to prove that your child or grandchild meets
the low income cut-off (LICO) minimum (The Canadian or permanent
resident spouse or common-law partner of your child or grandchild may co-
sign the invitation letter to meet the LICO minimum):
the most recent copy of their federal income tax notice of assessment
If your child or grandchild does not have a paper copy of their
notice of assessment, they can view (and print) their tax returns as
well as other personal tax information using the Canada Revenue
Agency’s My Account online service. To register or login, visit My
Account.
the most recent copy of the child or grandchild’s T4 or T1
an original letter from child’s or grandchild’s employer stating their job
title, job description and salary
the child or grandchild’s employment insurance benefit statements,
including
a letter from an accountant confirming annual income, if self-
employed
proof of other sources of income (for example, pension statement,
investments)
evidence of the parent or grandparent relationship to the Canadian citizen
or permanent resident you wish to visit (such as a birth certificate, baptismal
certificate or other official documents naming you as parent or grandparent)
proof that you have private medical insurance valid for a minimum of 1 year
from a Canadian insurance company, or an insurance company outside
Canada that has been approved by the minister
More information on approved insurance companies outside of Canada
will be available in the coming months.
This medical insurance must
be paid in full (quotes aren’t accepted)
covers health care, hospitalization and repatriation
provide a minimum coverage of $100,000, and
be valid for each entry to Canada and be available for review by a
border services officer, upon request
After you apply, you will also need to undergo a medical examination and provide
proof of the results.
You will be required to appear in person to have your biometric fingerprints and
photo (biometric information) taken at a biometric collection service point.
Visa-exempt applicants
You are not required to pay the application processing fee or provide your
biometrics.
If your application is approved, you will be directed to apply for an electronic
travel authorization (eTA). You will be provided with a letter that you will show to
a border services officer upon arrival to Canada.
What must my child or grandchild do to meet the low income cut-off
minimum?
You child or grandchild’s income must meet or exceed the minimum necessary
cut-off, as identified annually in the income table.
In the letter of invitation, they must calculate their family size. This factor
determines the amount of income required to provide care and support for you
and your spouse, if applicable.
How to calculate family size:
1. Your child or grandchild counts
themselves
their spouse or common-law partner
their dependent children
any person they may have sponsored previously and for whom the
sponsorship agreement and undertaking are still in effect
2. They count the number of persons they will be supporting
you, and
your spouse or common-law partner, if you have one
3. They add together the number of persons covered by steps 1 and 2. The
total represents their family size.
4. They look at the LICO in the income table in this guide to determine if they
meet the minimum required for their family size.
5. To demonstrate that they meet the minimum income required, your child or
grandchild may include one of the documents listed in the document
checklist (IMM 5484).
If your child or grandchild does not meet the LICO minimum, their spouse or
common-law partner can assist by also providing a letter of invitation with one of
the documents listed in the document checklist (IMM 5484).
Step 1. Gather documents
What documents are required?
Use the Document Checklist [IMM 5484]  to assist you in gathering the required
documents to submit your application.
Some visa offices may require additional supporting documents specific to your
country. For further information, check the Application for a Visitor Visa page.
You must select the country or territory from which you will apply to get your
local visa office instructions.
Important information: If you do not provide all the requested information or
documents, the processing of your application could be delayed.
Minors travelling alone
Minors (under 18 years of age) travelling alone or with a person other than their
parents or legal guardians should have a letter of authorization, preferably in
English or French, signed by both parents or legal guardians. It should also
include the name of the adult who will be responsible for the children in Canada.
Minors travelling with only one parent or legal guardian should have a letter of
authorization, preferably in English or French, from the non accompanying
parent or guardian.

Translation of documents
You must include the following along with any document that is not in
English or French:
the English or French translation; and
an affidavit from the person who completed the translation (if they are not a
certified translator).
Translations may be done by:
a person who is fluent in both languages (English or French, and the
unofficial language); or
a Canadian certified translator (a member in good standing of a provincial or
territorial organization of translators and interpreters in Canada).
If the translation isn’t done by a Canadian certified translator, the person who
completed the translation must provide an affidavit swearing to their language
proficiency and the accuracy of the translation.
The affidavit must be sworn in the presence of:
In Canada:
a notary public;
a commissioner of oaths; or
a commissioner of taking affidavits.
Authority to certify varies by province and territory. Consult your local
provincial or territorial authorities.
Outside of Canada:
a notary public
Authority to administer oaths varies by country. Consult your local
authorities.
Important information: Translations must not be done by the applicants
themselves nor by members of the applicant’s family. This includes a parent,
guardian, sibling, spouse, common-law partner, conjugal partner, grandparent,
child, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew and first cousin.
Note: An affidavit is a document on which the translator has sworn, in the
presence of a person authorized to administer oaths in the country where
the translator is living, that the contents of their translation are a true
translation and representation of the contents of the original document.
Translators who are certified in Canada don’t need to supply an
affidavit.
Certified true copies
To have a photocopy of a document certified, an authorized person must
compare the original document to the photocopy and must print all of the
following on the photocopy:
“I certify that this is a true copy of the original document”;
the name of the original document;
the date of the certification;
the name of the authorized person;
their official position or title; and
their signature.
Who can certify copies?
Only authorized people can certify copies.
Important information: Certifying of copies must not be done by the
applicants themselves nor by an applicant’s parent, guardian, sibling, spouse,
common-law partner, conjugal partner, grandparent, child, aunt, uncle, niece,
nephew or first cousin.
People authorized to certify copies include the following:
In Canada:
a notary public;
a commissioner of oaths; or
a commissioner of taking affidavits.

Authority to certify varies by province and territory. Check with your local
provincial or territorial authorities to learn who has the authority to certify.
Outside Canada:
a notary public
Authority to certify international documents varies by country. Check with
your local authorities to learn who has the authority to certify in your country.
Step 2. Obtain the required forms
We’ll send you the application package in one of these formats:
printed
braille
large print
How to request an alternative format
1. Open a new email
2. In the subject line of your email, include
the format you need (printed, braille, or large print), and
the application package you want
3. In the body of your email, include
your full name as shown on your passport
a statement explaining that you’re asking for an alternate format
if you want the application in English or French
how we should send it to you (by email or regular mail)
Include your email address if you want us to send it electronically
so you can print it yourself. This option will save you the time it
would take to mail it to you.
Include your mailing address if you want it mailed to you.
Email us at IRCC.PRPortalALTRequest-
DemandeALTPortailRP.IRCC@cic.gc.ca
You can only email us to request alternative format of applications.
We won’t reply to emails about any other topics.
After we get your request, we’ll send you the requested information and tell you
Important information
where to send your application.
How to submit your application
fill out and sign any paper forms we sent you
submit the application by mail or courier to the mailing address provided in
our instructions
For more information on how to apply for an alternative format, call 1-888-242-
2100 (from inside Canada only).
Note: You may be required to complete additional supporting documents
upon request of a visa officer.
Important information: It is a serious offence to give false or misleading
information on these forms. The information you provide on your application is
subject to verification.
Be complete and accurate
Complete all sections. If a section does not apply to you, write “Not Applicable” or
“NA”, except for your name (last name and given name[s]). Refer to questions 1
and 2 under “Personal Details” section for further instructions. The application
must be signed and dated.
If your application is incomplete it may be rejected and this will delay the
processing of your application.
If you need more space for any section, print out an additional page
containing the appropriate section, complete it and submit it along with
your application.
Application for Temporary Resident Visa (IMM 5257)
Who must fill out this application form?

Note
This form must be completed by each person applying for a Temporary Resident
Visa to visit Canada.
Fill out the form
You must answer all the questions on this form unless instructed otherwise.
Download and fill out the form on a computer.
You also have the option to save your form and fill it out later.
Note: Filling out the form on a computer is easier and reduces mistakes
that can slow down the application process.
Read and follow the questions below to help you fill out the form.
Question 1
Type your universal client identification number (UCI), if known. Otherwise, leave
it blank. If this is your first time dealing with us you will not have a UCI.
Question 2
From the list, select the language (English or French) in which you would like to
receive your service.
Question 3
From the list, select the type of visa you are applying for:
Visitor visa: official document issued by a visa office that is placed in the
passport which allows you to seek entry to Canada.
Transit Visa: is required for persons travelling through Canada for less than
48 hours on their way to another country.
Note: To obtain a transit visa you must provide specific evidence of
your travel itinerary from your transportation company or travel agent.
Personal Details


Question 1
Full name
Type your family name (surname) exactly as shown on your passport or travel
document (even if the name is misspelled). Do not use initials.
Note: If you do not have a family name on your passport or travel
document, enter all your given names here and leave the given name field
blank.
Type all of your given names (first, second, or more) exactly as shown on your
passport or travel document (even if the name is misspelled). Do not use initials.
Note: If you do not have a given name on your passport or travel
document, leave this field blank. Do not enter “*”, “Not applicable” or
“NA”.
Question 2
Nick names or Alias
Check the box to tell us if you have ever used any other name. This could include
your birth name, maiden name, married name, nick name, etc.
If you checked “Yes”, type any other family name that you have ever used.
If you checked “Yes”, type any other given name (first, second, or more) that
you have ever used.
Question 3
Choose your gender (F-Female, M-Male, U-Unknown or X-Another gender).
Note: If you choose a gender identifier that is different than what you
currently have or have had on your Canadian temporary resident document
(visa, electronic travel authorization, work permit, study permit or visitor
record), you need to complete the Request for a Change of Sex or Gender
Identifier (IRM 0002) form and send it with your application. You also need
to complete this form and send it with your application if you’ve never had a



Canadian temporary resident document but you intend to apply for one and
you identify with a gender that is different than what appears on your
foreign travel document or passport. No supporting documents are
required.
Question 4
Enter your date of birth. If your entire date of birth is unknown, please use ‘*’
(star sign or asterisk) to fill in the spaces for the year, month or day, where
applicable.
Question 5
Note, if your city, town, country or territory of birth is indicated in your passport
or your travel document, please record it as it appears in the document.
Question 6
Choose your country or territory of citizenship. To be a citizen of a country or
territory means that you were either born in that country or territory (in most
cases) or have been granted citizenship by that country or territory. If you are a
citizen of more than one country or territory, choose the country or territory that
issued the passport you will be using for this trip.
Question 7
Choose the correct information:
The name of the country or territory you live in, if you have been lawfully
admitted to that country or territory.
Your immigration status in that country or territory (choose one of the
following):
Citizen
Permanent resident
Visitor
Worker
Student
Other
Protected Person
Refugee Claimant
Other: You must fill out this section if you chose “Other” as a status.
The dates (From – To) you have been living in your country or territory of
residence.
Question 8
Check the box to tell us if during the past five years, you have lived in any other
country or territory other than your country of citizenship or your current country
or territory of residence (indicated above) for more than six months?
If you checked “Yes”, choose the correct information:
The name of the country or territory you lived in;
Your immigration status for the time you were in that country or territory:
Citizen
Permanent resident
Visitor
Worker
Student
Other
Protected Person
Refugee Claimant
Other: You must fill out this section if you chose “Other” as a status;
The dates (From – To) you were living in that country or territory.
Question 9
Check the box to tell us if you are applying from the country or territory you live
in.
If you checked “No”, choose the correct information:
The name of the country or territory where you are applying from;
Your immigration status in that country or territory by choosing one of the
following:
Citizen
Permanent resident
Visitor
Worker
Student
Other
Protected Person
Refugee Claimant
Other: You must fill out this section if you chose “Other” as a status;
The dates (From – To) that you have been living in that country or territory.
If you are not a citizen of the country or territory where you are applying, you
must send proof of your legal status in the country or territory you live in when
you submit your application.
Question 10
a. Choose your current marital status from the list below:
Annulled Marriage
This is a marriage that is legally declared invalid. An annulment can also be a
declaration by the Catholic Church that the marital union did not have a
binding force.
Common - Law
This means that you have lived continuously with your partner in a marital-
type relationship for a minimum of one year.
Divorced
This means that you are officially separated and have legally ended your
marriage.
Married
This means that you and your spouse have had a ceremony that legally
binds you to each other. Your marriage must be legally recognized in the
country where it was performed and in Canada.
Separated
This means that you are married, but are no longer living with your spouse.
Single
This means that you have never been married and are not in a common-law
relationship.
Widowed
This means that your spouse has died and that you have not re-married or
entered into a common-law relationship.
b. Enter the date (year, month and day) you were married or you entered into
your current common-law relationship.
c. Type the family names and given names of your current spouse or common-
law partner.
If you are in a common-law union, you must also request and fill out the Statutory
Declaration of Common-law Union [IMM 5409] form and include it with your
application. If you are married, you must send a photocopy of your marriage
licence or certificate with your application.
Question 11
Check the box to tell us if you have ever been married or in a common-law
relationship. If you checked “Yes”, enter the following information:
All family names,
All given names,
Date of birth,
Type of relationship:
Common-law, or
Married,
Dates (From – To) for which you were in the relationship with your former
spouse or common-law partner.
Languages
Question 1
a. Choose your native language (mother tongue).
b. If your native language is not English or French, choose the language you
would most likely use.
Both
English
French
Neither
c. Choose English, French or both as your language of communication:
English
French
Both
Neither
d. Check “Yes” or “No” to tell us if you have taken a test from a designated
testing agency to test your abilities in English or French.
Passport
Question 1
Type your valid passport or travel document number exactly as shown on the
document. Make sure there is no space between each number or letter.
Question 2
From the list, select the name of the country or territory that issued your
passport or travel document.
Question 3
Enter the date your passport or travel document was issued.
Question 4
Enter the date your passport or travel document will expire.
Question 5
For this trip – Check “Yes” or “No” to tell us if you are using a passport issued by
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Taiwan that shows your personal identification
number.
Question 6
For this trip – Check “Yes” or “No” to tell us if you are using a National Israeli
passport.
Note: There must be at least one blank page other than the last page
available on each passport. If applying from outside Canada, refer to the
responsible visa office for your region. If applying from inside Canada, a
physical copy of your passport is not required at this time, and may be
requested at a late date.
Venezuelan passport holders
You may need to complete extra steps when you fill out your application.
National Identity Document


Question 1
Check “Yes” or “No” to tell us if you have a national identity document.
Question 2
Enter your national identity document number exactly as shown on the
document.
Question 3
From the list, select the name of the country or territory that issued your national
identity document.
Question 4
Enter the date your national identity document was issued.
Question 5
Enter the date your national identity document will expire.
US PR Card
Question 1
Check “Yes” or “No” to tell us if you are a lawful Permanent Resident of the
United States with a valid alien registration card (green card).
Question 2
Enter your valid alien registration card (green card) document number exactly as
shown on the document.
Question 3
Enter when your alien registration card (green card) document will expire.
Contact Information
Question 1
Type your current mailing address (where information should be mailed). Make
sure you include the following information:
Post Office Box (P.O. Box) number, if you have one. If you do not have a post
office box number, you must type the street number,
Apartment (Apt.) or Unit,
Street number (No.). If you did not type in a P.O. Box number, you must type
the street number,
Street name. Do not abbreviate words (Street, Avenue, Boulevard, Drive, etc.)
except for directions (NW, SE, W, etc.),
City or Town,
From the list, choose the country or territory of your current mailing
address,
Province or State,
Postal code or zip code,
District, if it applies to you.
All correspondence will go to this address unless you give us your e-mail address.
If you wish to have a representative who can conduct business on your behalf,
you must give us their email and mailing addresses in this section and fill out the
Use of a Representative (IMM 5476 [PDF, 0.26 MB]) form.
Question 2
Check the box to tell us if the address you live at is the same as your mailing
address. If “No”, type the following information:
Apartment (Apt.) or Unit, if it applies to you,
Street Number (No.),
Street Name. Do not abbreviate words (Street, Avenue, Boulevard, Drive etc.)
except for directions (NW, SE, W, etc.),
City or Town,
Country or territory,
Province or State,
Postal Code or zip code,
District, if it applies to you.
Question 3
Check the correct box to tell us if the telephone number is from Canada, the
United States (US) or Other (any other country).
Choose the type of telephone:
Residence (home)
Cellular (cell or mobile)
Business (work)
Type your telephone number including the country code, area or regional
codes, etc.
If you have an extension number, write it after your phone number under “Ext.”
Question 4
Check the correct box to tell us if your other telephone number is from Canada,
the United States or Other (any other country).
Choose the type of telephone:
Residence (home)
Cellular (cell or mobile)
Business (work)
Type your telephone number including the country code, area or regional
codes, etc.
If you have an extension number, write it after your phone number under “Ext.”
Question 5
Check the correct box to tell us if the facsimile (fax) number is from Canada, the
United States or Other (any other country).
If you have one, type your facsimile (fax) number, including country code, area or
regional codes, etc.
Question 6
If you have one, type your e-mail address using a format similar to the following:
name@provider.net
Note: Make sure you check your email regularly. Any emails sent to you by
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) will end in:
“@cic.gc.ca”,
“@canada.ca”, or
“@international.gc.ca”.
Please add these to your “safe senders” list in your email program and
check the junk mail folder in case important emails get filtered. If we find
that your email address does not work or no longer exists, we will

communicate with you by mail. By giving us your e-mail address, you are
hereby authorizing us to send your correspondence, including file and
personal information electronically to this address.
Details of Visit to Canada
Question 1
a. From the list, indicate the purpose of your visit to Canada:
Business
Tourism
Short-term studies (course or program of six months or less)
Returning student
Returning worker
Super visa — Parents and grandparents
Other (medical visit, transit, etc.)
Family Visit
Visit
Note: If you selected “other” in question 1a), provide details in 1b)
b. Provide details.
Question 2
Enter the dates (From – To) that you plan to stay in Canada.
Question 3
Type the amount of funds (money) in Canadian dollars that you have available to
you during your stay in Canada.
Question 4
Type the following information about the person(s) or institution(s), including
schools you intend to visit during your stay in Canada:
Name (includes the name of a person or a name of an institution)
Relationship you have with this person or institution (friend, family, co-
worker, etc.)
Their address in Canada (street number, street name, city or town and postal

code).
Education
Check the box to tell us if you have any post-secondary education (including
university, college or apprenticeship training).
Examples of post-secondary education:
Trade or Apprenticeship
Training completed in a specific trade, such as carpentry or auto mechanics.
Non-university certificate or diploma
Training in a profession that requires formal education but not at the university
level (for example, dental technician or engineering technician).
Bachelor’s degree
Academic degree awarded by a college or university to those who finished an
undergraduate curriculum; also called a baccalaureate. Examples include a
Bachelor of Arts, Science or Education.
Master’s degree
Academic degree awarded by a graduate school of a college or university. You
must have completed a Bachelor’s degree before a Master’s degree can be
earned.
PhD
Highest university degree usually based on at least three years of graduate
studies and a thesis. Normally, you must have finished a Master’s degree before
a PhD can be earned.
If you checked “Yes”, give us full details of your highest level of post-secondary
education:
Enter the dates (year and month) you attended the institution
Field(s) of study (mechanics, social sciences, medicine, etc.)
School or Facility name
City or Town
Country or territory (choose from the list) and
Province or State.
Employment (Work or job)
Enter the following information about your employment for the past 10 years. If
you are retired, give information about the 10 years before your retirement.
Question 1
Current activity or job
Give details about your current activity or job:
dates (year and month) you have been working at your current job,
activity or job, or a brief description of your position. If you do not work,
describe what you are currently doing (retired, not working, going to school,
etc.),
name of the company, employer or facility where you work,
City or Town,
Country or territory,
Province or State, if it applies to you.
Question 2
Previous activity or job
Give details of your previous activity or job for the past 10 years. If you are
retired, include the details about the 10 years before your retirement.
If you need more space, print out another page of the form, fill in this section and
submit it with your application.
Background Information
All questions in this section must be answered or the application will be
considered incomplete and will be returned.
Question 1
Check the box to indicate if:
a. you or any of your family members have ever had tuberculosis of the lungs
or been in close contact with a person with tuberculosis within the past
two years.
b. you have any physical or mental disorder that would require social and/or
health services other than medication during your stay in Canada.
c. If you checked “Yes” to any of the above questions, provide details and the
name of the family member, if applicable.
Note: Refer to the Family Members definition in this guide.
Question 2
Check the box to indicate if you have ever:
a. remained beyond the validity of your status, attended school without
authorization or worked without authorization in Canada.
b. been refused a visa or permit, denied entry or ordered to leave Canada or
any other country or territory.
c. Applied previously to enter or remain in Canada.
d. If you checked “Yes” to one of the above questions, provide details.
Question 3
Check the box to indicate if you have ever:
committed,
been arrested for, or
been charged with or convicted of any criminal offence in any country or
territory.
Question 4
a. Check the box to indicate if you have ever served in any military, militia, civil
defence unit, served in a security organization or police force (including non-
obligatory national service, reserve or voluntary units).
b. If you answered “Yes” to question 4a), please provide your dates of service
and the countries or territories where you served.
Question 5
Check “Yes” or “No” to indicate if you have ever been a member or associated
with any political party, or other group or organization which has engaged in or
advocated violence as means to achieving a political or religious objective, or
which has been associated with criminal activity at any time.
Question 6

Check “Yes” or “No” to indicate if you have ever witnessed or participated in the
ill treatment of prisoners or civilians, looting or desecration of religious buildings.
To complete your form:
1. Once the application is completed, click on the “Validate” button located at
the top or bottom of the form. This will generate a barcode page (page 5
of 5) – see image below. If this application form is completed on a computer
and printed, you must place the barcode page on the top of your application
(or if applying as a group, each individual application package).
Note: This barcode page will not appear if you fill out your application
by hand.
2. If you are 18 years of age or older, you must sign and date in the boxes
provided at the bottom of the page.
If you are less than 18 years of age, your form must be signed by one of
your parents or a legal guardian.
Note: By signing, you certify that you fully understand the questions
asked, and that the information you have provided is complete,
accurate, and factual. If you do not sign and date the application form,
it will be returned to you.
Family Information (IMM 5707 or IMM 5645)
Who needs to complete this form?
This form must be completed by each person, 18 years of age or older, applying
for a Temporary Resident Visa, a study or work permit outside Canada.


Which form needs to be completed?
You must complete the Family Information form (IMM 5707 or IMM 5645) listed in
the application package for your country.
Use of a Representative (IMM 5476)
Who may use this form?
Fill out this form only if you:
are appointing a representative;
need to update contact information for your previously appointed
representative; or
are cancelling a representative’s appointment.
If you have dependent children aged 18 years or older, they must fill out their
own copy of this form if a representative is also conducting business on their
behalf.
Who is a representative?
A representative is someone who:
you have appointed by completing the IMM 5476 form;
gives advice, consultation, or guidance to you at any stage of the application
process; and
has your consent to conduct business on your behalf with Immigration,
Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) and the Canada Border Services
Agency (CBSA).
You are not obliged to hire a representative. We treat everyone equally, whether
they use the service of a representative or not.
For more information, see: Use of a Representative.
Notify IRCC about any changes
You must use this Web form to tell us if any information changes regarding the
person you authorized to represent you on your application.
Step 3. Pay the fees
Fees
Important information: There are two types of fees:
an application processing fee;
a biometric fee.
Find out if you need to give biometrics.
Use the table below to calculate the total amount of fees to be paid (all fees are in
Canadian dollars). The processing fees must be included with your application. If
you or your family members are required to provide biometric information, the
biometric fee should be paid at the same time and the same way as the
processing fee in order to avoid delays in processing your application.
Note: You may be required to pay fees in local currency.
Your fees
Application $CAN
Visitor visa (including super visa) - per person
Single or multiple entry temporary resident visa 
$100
Visitor visa – per family (1 fee per family of 5 or more people)
Single or multiple entry temporary resident visa ;maximum fee for a
family of 5 or more people applying at the same time and place
$500
Transit Visa No
fee

What's this?
What’s this?
Biometrics fees $CAN
Biometrics (per person) $85
Biometrics (per family) (2 or more people)
Maximum fee for a family of 2 or more people applying at the same time and
place
$170
Fees are subject to change at any time.
Note: Make sure that you are eligible before you pay, and gather all the
documents requested before you submit the application.
The fees will not be refunded, regardless of the final decision. For example,
being found ineligible for a temporary resident visa is part of the processing; the
fees will not be refunded. If you apply again, you will have to pay another
processing fee and if applicable, another biometric fee.
Visa-exempt visitors applying for a super visa:
If you are a citizen of a country where you do not require a visa to visit Canada,
you do not have to pay any processing fees. However you will have to satisfy all
other requirements to obtain a super visa.
Find out if you need an Electronic Travel Authorization (eTA) or a visitor visa.
How to pay the fees for your application
To pay your fees for your application you’ll need:
a valid e-mail address;
access to a printer (you’ll need to print the receipt), and
a credit card, Debit MasterCard  or Visa Debit card.
Visit the link below and follow these instructions to pay:
Go to Online Payment.

® ®
Note 
Follow the online instructions.
At the end, click on the button to print the IRCC official receipt with
barcode. Print two copies.
Attach a copy of this receipt to your completed application.
Keep the second copy of the receipt for your records.
 Do not exit without printing the receipt! The printed receipt is your proof
of payment!
The only acceptable form of payment is online payment. If you send any
other form of payment, IRCC will return your application.
Incorrect fee payment
Incorrect fee payments may delay processing of your application.
Payment issue – No fee included
We will return your application.
Note: We will start processing your application after you return your application
with the fees.
Payment issue – Not enough fees included
We will return your application and tell you of how much to pay.
Note: We will start processing your application once you return your application
with the correct fees.
Payment issue – Overpayment
We will:
start processing your application, and
send you a refund.
Note: You do not have to ask for a refund, it will be done automatically.
Payment issue –Required biometric fee not included
We will:
tell you the fee amount and how to pay it.
Note: We will continue processing of your application after you send the missing
fees.
Step 4. Submit the application
Where do I apply?
You may send your application to a Visa Application Center (VAC) that serves your
area or apply online.
If I need to give my biometric fingerprints and photo, where
do I go?
Outside Canada and the U.S.: At one of Canada’s Visa Application Centers (VAC)
locations around the world.
In the United States: At one of many Application Support Centers across the U.S.
In Canada: As of December 3, 2019, you can go to a designated Service Canada
location.
At the port of entry: Asylum claimants, and applicants for work and study permits
who are eligible to apply at the port of entry.
Consult the list of biometric collection service points.
Note: If you need to give biometric fingerprints and photo, you do not need
to include paper photos with your application.
If, for some reason, you can’t provide your biometric information
(photograph and/or fingerprints) or if you need more than the 30 days,
please contact us and be prepared to provide a detailed explanation.

Submit the document checklist
Make sure you complete the Document Checklist [IMM 5484] and include it with
your application forms and supporting documents.
What should I submit with my application?
Make sure you complete the Document Checklist and include it with your
application forms. Make sure you include all the supporting documents listed on
the Document Checklist.
If your family members are also applying for TRVs, you can include your whole
family's applications in the same envelope.
If you are a permanent resident (PR) overseas, and have decided to renounce
(relinquish) your permanent resident status, you must request and submit the
application for PR renunciation [IMM 5782] in a separate envelope from your
Temporary Resident application.
Temporary Resident applications may be submitted through a Visa Application
Centre (VAC) or online, while the PR applications must be sent by mail separately
to the visa office.
What happens next?
The application process
Submission
Completion check
Once you have submitted your application, we will check to make sure that:
you have properly completed and submitted all of the required application
forms;
you have paid the application processing fee; and
you have sent all requested supporting documentation.
If your application package is incomplete:
we will return it to you;
we will not create a file; and
we will not keep a record until you have submitted a complete application.
Note: To avoid processing delays, pay your biometric fees at the same time as
your application processing fees, using the same method of payment.
Processing
Review for decision
Your application will undergo a detailed review by an officer. The officer will
consider all the information and documentation you have provided, and will
assess it and will decide if an interview is necessary. If so, you will be informed of
the interview date, time and place.
If your application is refused, any original documents, including your passport if
submitted with your application, will be returned to you with an explanation of
why your application was refused.
Note: If we suspect that fraudulent documents were submitted, they will
not be returned.
If your application is approved, any original documents, including your passport
if submitted with your application, will be returned to you with the requested
visa.
Visa-exempt visitors applying for a super visa
If your application is approved, your passport and documents will be returned to
you with a letter of introduction.
Arrival in Canada
A valid Temporary Resident Visa is not a guarantee of entry into Canada. An
officer at the port of entry will decide if you still meet the requirements for

admission when you arrive.
If there has been a change in circumstances between the dates of your
application for a visa and your arrival in Canada, or if subsequent information is
given which was not originally available to the visa office, you may be refused
entry.
When you arrive in Canada, the officer at the port of entry will determine whether
you may enter Canada and how long you may stay. You must leave Canada on or
before the date set by the officer or have your status extended by an officer in
Canada. The stamp placed in your passport by a Canadian official is generally
valid for a period of six (6) months unless another duration is specified by
the official.
Parent and Grandparent super visa
If you applied for a super visa on or after June 22, 2023, your visitor status is valid
for 5 years on each entry to Canada. See How long you can stay in Canada for
more information.
You must leave Canada on or before the date set by the officer or apply to extend
your stay before your status expires. It is your responsibility to maintain valid
visitor status. If you enter Canada on or after June 22, 2023, and you have a
stamp in your passport with no handwritten date, or if you have no stamp, you
are allowed to stay for 5 years.
As a super visa holder, it is important to
renew or maintain your health insurance while in Canada and on re-entry
make sure your passport is valid while you’re in Canada
Note: for applicants who provided their biometric information as part of
their application, when you arrive at the Canadian port of entry, the officer
will:
check your travel documents and compare you to the photo taken at
the time of your application, and
may ask you to proceed to a secondary inspection line where your
fingerprints will be compared with the fingerprints that were taken at
the time of your visa application.

For more information
What you can do to help processing
There are certain things you can do to help make sure your application is
processed as fast as possible:
submit all documents and information we have asked for with your
application
pay your application and biometric fees (if required)
provide your biometrics as soon as possible (if required)
tell us if your contact information changes, including:
mailing address;
telephone numbers;
facsimile number (fax);
e-mail address.
Things that delay processing
The following may delay processing:
unclear photocopies of documents;
verification of your information and documents;
a medical condition that may need more tests or consultations;
a criminal or security issue;
consultation is needed with other offices in Canada or abroad.
Current processing times
You can check current processing times on the Application processing times
webpage.
Checking application status
See Check application status to find information on how to view your current
For more information:
status.
If you can’t view your current status, you may Contact Us to learn about your
current status. To obtain details on how to remove your application status
information from the Internet, visit the “Frequently Asked Questions” (FAQ)
section.
Protecting your information
Your personal information, including biometric fingerprints and photograph, if
given:
may be shared with other Canadian government institutions as well as
foreign governments as permitted under the provisions of the Privacy Act,
will be available to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC)
and the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) employees who need to see
it in order to provide the services to you, and
will not be disclosed to anyone else except as permitted under the provisions
of the Privacy Act.
You can find more information about the protection of
your data by visiting the Help Centre.
Find out more about the protection of your biometric
information.
Quality Assurance Program
Our quality assurance program randomly chooses applications for a special
review. If chosen, we will ask you to attend an interview with an IRCC official to:
verify that the documentation and any other information you submitted is
accurate,
verify that your application has been completed properly.
Note: We will notify you in writing if your application is chosen.
Online services
For more information about the programs offered by IRCC, visit Immigration and
Citizenship.
Need help?
If you need help, you can find answers to your questions by visiting the Help
Centre.
Income Table
Your child or grandchild may use the following income scale to assess their ability
to meet the income requirements.
Updated July 29, 2025
Low Income Cut-Off (LICO)
Size of Family Unit
Minimum necessary gross
income
1 person (your child or grandchild) $30,526
2 persons $38,002
3 persons $46,720
4 persons $56,724
5 persons $64,336
6 persons $72,560
7 persons $80,784
More than 7 persons, for each additional $8,224
Size of Family Unit
Minimum necessary gross
income
person, add
Temporary Resident Visa application
photograph specifications
Provide two photos meeting the requirement of the Visa application photograph
specifications. On the back of two photos, write your name and date of birth.
Note: if you are required to provide biometric fingerprints and photo, you
are not required to include paper photos with your application.
Save Time: Send a Complete Application
How-to video
Come to Canada
Find out if you are eligible
Date modified: 2025-08-13
Did you find what you were looking for?
Yes  No
Immigration and citizenship
Help Centre
Contact us
Check your application status
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy