1 
 
DETAILS OF VISAS GRANTED BY INDIA 
 
 
 
I.  e-VISA 
 
 
1 Eligibility  
 
e-Visa is granted to a foreigner whose sole objective of visiting India is recreation, sight seeing, 
casual visit to meet friends or relatives, attending a short term yoga programme, medical 
treatment including treatment under Indian systems of medicine  and business purpose and no 
other purpose/ activity. This facility shall not be available if the person or either of his / her 
parents or grand parents (paternal or maternal) was born in, or was permanently resident in 
Pakistan.  e-Visa facility shall not be available to holders of Diplomatic/Official passports, UNLP 
(UN Passport) holders and international travel document holders e.g. INTERPOL officials .   List 
of countries whose nationals are presently eligible for e-visa is given in Appendix I. 
 
2 Procedure for applying for  e-Visa 
 
The foreign national may  fill in the application online on the 
website https://indianvisaonline.gov.in/visa/tvoa.html .  The applicant can apply 120 days in 
advance prior to expected date of arrival in India.    
 
3  Sub-categories of e-Visa 
 
There are three sub -categories of e- Visa i.e. (a)  e -Tourist Visa :  For r ecreation, sightseeing, 
casual visit to meet friends or relatives,  and attending a short term yoga programme , (b) e-
Business Visa : For all activities permitted under normal Business Visa  and (c) e-Medical Visa : 
For medical treatment, including treatment under Indian systems of medicine.  A foreign national 
will also be permitted to club these activities provided he/she had clearly indicated the same in 
the application form along with requisite documents.    
 
4  Entry points 
 
Persons holding e -Visa are allowed to enter into India only through the designated international 
airports namely, (1) Delhi (2) Mumbai  (3) Chennai (4) Kolkata (5) Trivandrum (6) Bangalore (7) 
Hyderabad (8) Cochin  (9) Goa (10) Ahmedabad (11)  Amritsar (12) Gaya  (13) Jaipur (14) 
Lucknow (15) Trichy  (16) Varanasi (17) Calicut (18) Mangalore (19) Pune (20) Nagpur (21) 
Coimbatore (22) Bagdogra  (23) Guwahati ,  (24) Chandigarh and (25) Visakhapatnam.  
 
Further, e-visa facility is also provided for entry at 5 major Indian seaports i.e. (1) Mumbai  (2) 
Cochin  (3) Mormugao  (4) Chennai and (5) New Mangalore for cruise tourists.    
 
Persons holding e-Visa can depart from any of the authorized Immigration Check Posts in India. 
 
5  Validity 
 
e-visa will be granted for a period up to 60 days with double entry on e -Tourist Visa and e -
Business Visa and triple entry on e- Medical Visa.  In the case of e- Medical Visa, extension may 
be granted up to 6 months on case to case basis on merits of each case by the FRRO/  FRO 
concerned.  
 
 
 
 
2 
 
6 Conditions for e-Visa 
 
e-Visa shall be non- extendable except in the case of e- Medical Visa as mentioned in  para 5 
above.   e-visa is also non-convertible except in specific cases.  Regarding conversion of e-visa to 
other categories of visa, please see the general policy guidelines relating to Indian visa on this 
website.   
 
7 Fee for e-Visa 
 
Fee for e- Visa for nationals of various countries will be fixed by the Government from time to 
time. 
 
8       Repeat visits  
 
 e-Visa will be allowed for a maximum of two times in a calendar year to a foreigner.  
 
 
II. VISA-ON-ARRIVAL 
 
 
9  Eligibility  
  
Visa-on-Arrival is granted to a Japanese national who is visiting India  for business, tourism, 
conference and medical purposes .   This facility shall not be available to the citizens of Japan if 
the person or either of his / her parents or grandparents (paternal or maternal) was born in, or was 
permanently resident in Pakistan. This facility shall not be available to holders of 
Diplomatic/Official passports and UN Passport holders having Japanese nationality. 
. 
10 Procedure for applying for Visa-on-Arrival 
 
Japanese nationals would be required to fill an application form and approach the “Visa Counter” 
at the designated airport on arrival.   After checking the eligibility criteria  and payment of fee,  
the Immigration officer would then stamp Visa-on-Arrival on the passport.   
 
11 Entry points 
 
Visa-on-Arrival is provided to Japanese nationals only at  6 designated international airports 
namely, Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore and Hyderabad. 
 
12     Validity 
 
The Immigration officer may grant a double entry Visa -on-Arrival valid up to 60 days to the 
citizens of Japan.    
 
13 Conditions for Visa-on-Arrival 
 
Visa-on-Arrival shall be non- extendable and non- convertible to any other type of visa  except in 
specific cases.  Regarding conversion of Visa-on-Arrival to other categories of visa, please see 
the general policy guidelines relating to Indian visa on this website.   
 
14 Fee for Visa-on-Arrival 
 
A fee of Rs 2000/ - or equivalent in foreign currency per passenger (including children), will be 
charged from each Japanese national. 
 
3 
 
III. TRANSIT VISA 
 
 
15 Eligibility and other conditions 
 
 A transit visa is granted to a foreigner for the sole purpose of enabling him/ her to travel through 
India to a destination outside India .  A  person who desires to make two entries into India in 
transit in the course of the same journey can be granted a transit visa valid for two entries and for 
stay in transit for a period not exceeding 3 days for each journey.   
 
16     Validity  
 
A transit visa will ordinarily be valid for a single journey and for entry within 15 days from the 
date of issue.  If the journey is not performed within this  period, a fresh transit visa will be 
required.  A transit visa is only valid for direct transit, which cannot be more than 3 days for 
each visit. This period is not extendable except in case of extreme emergency like strike, traffic 
disruption, inclement weather, illness, etc.   
 
17     Persons in direct transit through India 
 
A transit visa is not required by a foreigner passing through, in direct transit by air, and 
travelling onward through India, provided he/she does not leave the specified precincts of the 
airport.     A transit visa is not required by a foreigner who does not leave the ship while it halts 
at an Indian port.   
 
 
IV. TOURIST VISA 
 
18 Eligibility 
 
 A Tourist visa is granted to a foreigner whose sole objective of visiting India is recreation, sight 
seeing, casual visit to meet friends or relatives, attending a short term yoga programme,  short 
duration medical treatment including treatment under Indian systems of medicine etc. and no 
other purpose/ activity. [Short term yoga programme means a yoga programme not exceeding 6  
months duration and not issued with a qualifying certificate/ diploma etc.]   
 
19 Validity 
 
 Validity of a tourist visa will be as specified below:    
  
(i) Multiple entry Tourist Visa  may be granted  for a period of 10 years to the nationals of 
USA, Canada and Japan with a stipulation that “continuous stay during each visit shall 
not exceed 180 days and registration not required”.   
 
(ii) In respect of nationals of other countries (except for nationals of 33 countries  mentioned 
below), Multiple entry Tourist Visa may be granted for a period of  5 years as a default 
option.  Grant of 5-year Tourist Visa will be with the stipulation “Continuous stay during 
each visit shall not exceed 90 days and registration not required”. However, in the case of 
nationals of UK, continuous stay during each visit shall not exceed 180 days.    
 
(iii) In respect of nationals of  30 countries i.e.  (1) Iran,  (2) Egypt, (3) Libya, (4) Qatar, (5) 
Iraq, (6)  Syria , (7) Sudan , (8) Tunisia, (9) Kuwait, (10) Yemen,  ( 11) Algeria, 
(12)Bahrain, (13) Turkey,  (14) Morocco , (15) K yrgyzstan, (16) Turkmenistan , (17)  
4 
 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea), (18) Lebanon,  (19)  Afghanistan, 
(20) Saudi Arabia, (21) Uganda, (22) Congo, (23) Ethiopia, (24) Nigeria, (25) Belarus, 
(26)  Somalia, (27) South Sudan, (28) Kazakhstan,  (29)  Uzbekistan and (30)  Sri Lanka, 
duration of visa will be decided by the concerned Indian Missions/ Posts subject to a 
maximum of 5 years with the stipulation “continous stay during each visit shall not 
exceed 90 days and registration not required”.  
 
(iv) In respect of nationals of Bangladesh and China,   provisions as available in the bilateral 
agreements/ policy guidelines, as issued from time to time, will be applicable. 
 
(v) Tourist visa is not available to Pakistan nationals. 
 
(vi) In the case of  foreign nationals of Pakistan origin, Tourist Visa will  be granted for a 
period of 3 months with single entry. 
 
20   Conditions of Tourist Visa 
 
Tourist Visa shall be non- extendable and non- convertible to any other type of visa  except in 
specific cases.  Regarding conversion of Tourist Visa to other categories of visa, please see the 
general policy guidelines relating to Indian visa on this website.   
 
21 Repeat visits  
 
 There shall be a gap of at least 2  ( two) months between two visits to India on a Tourist Visa in 
respect of nationals of Afghanistan, China, Iraq, Sudan, foreigners of Pakistan origin and 
Stateless persons.  In case  any foreign national falling in this  category
 and who has  not been 
issued a 5-year Tourist Visa at the discretion of the Mission  is required to visit India again within 
a period of 2 months after his/her last departure  due to any exigent situation, such foreign 
national may be granted a fresh Tourist Visa.   The applicant should furnish an undertaking on the 
following lines:- 
 
(a)  That the purpose of his/her visit is because of an emergent situation. 
 
(b) That he/she is not engaged in Business activities, nor in Employment or pursuing 
studies/research etc. in India. 
 
22         Group Tourist Visa  
 
         Foreign tourists travelling in groups of not less than four members, under the auspices of a 
recognized travel agency can be granted Group Tourist visa for group tourism in India.  The 
Group Tourist Visa will be granted only on the online mode under the IVFRT.   In order to avail 
of this facility, the travel agency concerned shall mandatorily fill in the applications online on 
website www.indianvisaonline.gov.in.   The Mission/ P ost concerned will issue Group Tourist 
Visa (T- 2) after necessary checks.    
 
 
V.  MEDICAL VISA 
 
23     Eligibility and other conditions 
 
 A medical visa ( MED Visa)  is granted to a foreigner  whose sole purpose is to seek medical 
treatment in established/recognized/specialized hospitals/t reatment centres in India.   I n case the 
5 
 
foreign national desires to avail of treatment under the Indian systems of medicine, his/ her case 
will also be considered.  
 
 Hospital Authorities must share the documents issued by them e.g. medical invitation letter, 
appointment letter etc. as per the format given in Appendix  I I on the official email ID of 
concerned Indian Mission/ Post.  Further, the hospital authorities should also provide letter to the 
foreign nationals (patients/ attendants) for extension of visa and registration in the formats given 
in Appendix III and Appendix IV respectively for submission to the FRRO/ FRO concerned.  
 
24        Validity of visa and extension of visa  (in respect of all foreign nationals other than Pakistan 
and Bangladesh nationals) 
 
 The initial period of validity of Medical Visa (MED Visa)/Medical Attendant Visa (MED X Visa) 
may be up to a period of one year  or the period of treatment, whichever is less. The Indian 
Missions/ Posts abroad may, however, grant a Medical Visa of 6 (six) months validity with triple  
entry as a default option to all foreign nationals other than the nationals of 33 countries mentioned 
in para 19  (iii), (iv) &  (v) above. 
 
 Medical Visa can be extended for a further period up to  one year by the FRRO /FRO concerned 
on pr oduction of medical certificate  from a Government/ ICMR (Indian Council of Medical 
Research)/ NABH (National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers)/ MCI 
(Medical Council of India)/ CGHS (Central Government Health Scheme) recognized hospital .  
Any further extension will be granted only by the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
 
 
 In the case of Pakistani and Bangladeshi nationals, visa validity, extension of visa and number of 
entries permitted etc.  will be governed by specific provisions.  Please see ‘Visa to Pakistani 
nationals’ and ‘Visa to Bangladeshi nationals’  on this website. 
   
25     Visa to attendant/ family members 
 
(i) Attendants/ family members of the patient coming to India for medical treatment may be 
granted Medical Attendant visa ( MED X visa) co-terminus with the ‘Med Visa’ of the 
patient.   However, minor children accompanying a parent, who has come for medical 
treatment on a Medical Visa, may be granted ‘ X-Misc.’ visa co -terminus with the 
Medical Visa of the principal visa holder.    
 
(ii) In the case of foreign nationals other than Pakistan and Bangladesh  nationals, not more 
than two persons (attendant or family member) may be allowed at a time for the grant of 
‘MED X’ visa.   In the case of Pakistan nationals, only one attendant will  be allowed.  In 
the case of Bangladesh nationals, three attendants may be allowed.   
 
26    Registration 
  
(i) Foreign nationals (other than Pakistan nationals)  holding Medical/ Medical Attendant   
Visa for a period exceeding 180 days will be required to get themselves registered with 
the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 14 days of arrival in India.   
 
(ii) If the Medical / Medical Attendant Visa is valid for a period of 180 days or less, no 
registration would be required.   
 
(iii) Pakistan nationals holding a Medical Visa will be required to register themselves with 
the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 7 days of arrival in India, irrespective of the duration 
of the visa.  
 
6 
 
(iv) Pakistan nationals holding a Medical Attendant Visa will be required to register 
themselves with the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 24 hours of arrival in India, 
irrespective of the duration of the visa.   
 
27     Obligation on  Hospitals/  hospital administrators 
 
 Hotel keepers and others are required to submit details of the foreigners who have  been provided 
with lodging/ sleeping facility in their premises  in the prescribed form “C”  (Appendix – V).   
Hospitals/ hospital administrators should write  ‘hospital’ and ‘hospital administrators’ in place of 
‘ hotel’ and ‘hotel managers’ in this form.  
 
 
VI. EMPLOYMENT VISA 
 
28 Eligibility conditions 
 
 An Employment visa is granted to a foreigner who is a highly skilled and/or qualified 
professional.  Employment Visa shall not be granted – (i)  for jobs for which qualified Indians are 
available and (ii)  for routine, ordinary or secretarial/clerical jobs.    Employment visa is not 
granted to a citizen of Pakistan. 
 
 The foreign national being sponsored for an employment visa in any sector should draw a gross 
salary in excess of Rs. 16.25 lakhs per annum . However, this condition of annual floor limit on 
income will not apply to : (a) Ethnic cooks  employed by foreign Missions in India (this will not 
apply to ethnic cooks employed in commercial venture), (b) Language teachers ( other than 
English language teachers) / translators (this will not include teachers employed to teach 
particular subj ects in  foreign language), (c) s taff working for the concerned Embassy/ High 
Commission in India , (d) foreigners, eligible for ‘E’ visa for honorary work with the NGOs 
registered in the country without salary,  (e) foreign teaching faculty employed in the South Asian 
University and the Nalanda University,  and (f) Circus artists.    
   
 The salary threshold limit of Rs. 16.25 lakhs per annum will be worked out taking into account 
the salary and all other allowances paid to the foreign national in cash and also per quisites like 
rent free accommodation etc. which are included in the salary for the purpose of calculating 
income tax.  Such perquisites should be quantified and indicated in the Employment Contract. 
 
 In respect of foreign nationals engaged as teaching faculty at the level of Assistant Professors and 
above by the Central Higher Educational Institutions viz. Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), 
Central Universities (CUs), National Institutes of Technology (NITs), Indian Institutes of 
Management (IIMs) and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISERs), the 
minimum salary limit for grant of Employment visa will be Rs.9.10 lakhs per annum. 
 
Nationals of Bangladesh, who are married to Indian nationals and who are not eligible for 
registration as OCI cardholder  must draw a minimum salary of Rs. 9.10 lakhs  per annum for 
being eligible for grant of Employment Visa.   
 
Note: 
  
(1) In case of foreign nationals coming on Employment visa for a period of less than one 
year,  the minimum salary requirement  will be worked out on pro-rata basis.  
 
(2) Foreigners employed in BPO/ ITES are not eligible for exemption from annual threshold 
income limit. 
 
7 
 
29  Other foreign nationals eligible for Employment visa  
 
(a)  Foreign nationals coming to India as consultant on contr act for whom the Indian 
company pays a fixed remuneration (this may not be in the form of a monthly salary). 
 
(b) Foreign artistes engaged to conduct regular performances for the duration of the 
employment contract given by Hotels, Clubs, other organizations. 
 
(c)  Foreign nationals who are coming to India to take up employment as coaches of national 
/ state level teams or reputed sports clubs 
 
(d)  Foreign sportsmen who are given contract for a specified period by the Indian Clubs/  
organizations (This will not include foreign nationals who are engaged in commercial 
sports events in India on contract (including coaches), for whom appropriate visa would 
be B-Sports visa). 
 
(e)  Self-employed foreign nationals coming to India for providing engineering, medical, 
accounting, legal or such other highly skilled services in their capacity as independent 
consultants provided the provision of such services by foreign nationals is permitted 
under law. 
 
(f)  Foreign language teachers/ interpreters.   
 
(g)  Foreign specialist Chefs (For Foreign Specialist Chefs employed in commercial venture, 
the minimum salary criteria of Rs.16.25 lakhs per annum will be applicable). 
 
(h) Foreign Circus Artists 
 
(i)   Foreign engineers/ technicians coming to India for installation and commissioning of 
equipment / machines / tools in terms of the contract for supply of such equipment / 
machines / tools. 
 
 (j)  Foreign nationals deputed for providing technical support/services, transfer of know -
how/services for which the Indian company pays fees/royalty to the foreign company.   
(k) Foreign journalists, who intend to travel to India to work in Indian media organizations. 
 
(l) Employees / Managers comin g to India for non journalistic activities within media 
organizations.   
 
30       Duration of Employment Visa / Registration requirements / extension of Employment Visa  
 (Other than Japanese nationals) 
 
 (a) Duration of Employment Visa 
 
 Category Duration of Employment Visa 
(i) A foreign technician/expert coming to India in 
pursuance of  a bilateral agreement between the 
Government of India and the foreign government, or in 
pursuance of a collaboration agreement that has been 
approved by the Government of India 
Duration of the agreement  or for a 
period of five years, whichever is less, 
with multiple entry facilities 
(ii) Highly skilled foreign personnel being employed in 
the IT software and IT enabled sectors 
Up to  three  years or term of 
assignment, whiche ver is less, with 
multiple entry facilities 
8 
 
(iii) Foreigner coming f or employment not covered in 
(i) or (ii) above 
Up to 2 (two) years or the term of 
assignment, whichever is less, with 
multiple entry facility 
 
(b) Registration :   If the Employment visa is valid for a period of more than 180 days, the 
foreign national concerned should register with the FRRO/FRO concerned within 14 days of 
arrival.  In the case of Employment Visa issued for a period of 180 days or less, registration is not 
required with FRRO/FRO.    
 
 (c) Extension of Employment Visa : The Employment visa may be extended by the FRRO / 
FRO concerned beyond the initial visa validity period, up to a total period of 5 years from the 
date of issue of the initial Employment Visa, on an year to year basis. 
 
31 Specific provisions relating to the grant of Employment visa to Japanese nationals 
 
 (a)  Duration of Employment Visa 
 
 Category Duration of Employment Visa 
(i) Japanese technicians or experts coming to India in 
pursuance of bilateral arrangements between the 
Government of India and the Government of Japan or in 
pursuance of arrangements between non -governmental 
organizations that have been approved by the 
Government of India. 
Duration stated in the arrangement  
or for a period of five years, 
whichever is less, with multiple 
entry facilities 
(ii) Japanese applicants who are not covered under  (i) 
above but are highly skilled and qualified professionals 
employed by a company, organization or industry in the 
IT software and IT enabled sectors in India. 
Three years with multiple entry 
facility 
(iii) Japanese applicants who are highly skilled and 
qualified professional coming to India for employment 
by a company, organization or industry in India or 
engaged in an undertaking in India on contract not 
covered in (i) and (ii) above. 
Three years with multiple entry 
facility 
 
(b) An extension of the period of stay for 2 more years beyond the initial 3 years may be 
granted to those Japanese applicants who entered India with visa mentioned in (ii) above, in 
accordance with the procedures determined by the GOI.  In respect of Japanese applicants 
covered by (iii) above, an extension of the period of stay for 2 more years on a year to year basis 
beyond the initial period of 3 years may be granted subject to provision of necessary documents. 
 
(c) A multiple entry dependent visa  may be issued to the family members (spouse and 
children who are dependent on the applicant and forming part of the same household) of the 
nationals of Japan mentioned in (a) above.   
 
(d) Japanese nationals holding Employment (E) Visa and their dependents  holding  
dependent Visa may be granted Residential Permit co -terminus with the validity of the 
Employment/  Dependent   Visa as the case may be.    Japanese nationals who are required to 
register with the FRRO/ FRO concerned need not be present in person i n the FRRO/ FRO for 
initial registration or for subsequent extension of visa/ Residential Permit and this may be done 
through an authorized representative.  
 
 
9 
 
32    Employment visa for foreigners wishing to work with NGOs registered in India 
         
A foreigner who wishes to come to India for honorary work  (without salary) with NGOs 
registered in India may be granted multiple entry Employment [‘E-4’] Visa for one year initially.  
The foreigners eligible for honorary work with the NGOs may be paid an ho norarium upto a 
ceiling of Rs. 10,000 per month.  The visa may be extended by FRRO / FRO concerned for a total 
period of 5 years from the date of issue of the initial Employment Visa, on  year to year basis. 
 
33     Visa to family members of a foreigner granted Employment Visa 
 
Family members / dependents of a foreigner who is granted `E’ visa may be granted dependent 
visa of appropriate sub-category.   Its validity shall be co-terminus with the validity of the visa of 
the principal visa holder [or for such shorter period as may be considered necessary by the Indian 
Mission]. Such family members may also obtain Student/Research Visa etc. pro vided they are 
otherwise eligible for grant of such a visa.  Dependent visa of the family members/ dependents of 
such foreign national can be extended by the FRRO/ FRO concerned for a total period of 5 years 
from the date of issue of the initial visa, co-terminus with the visa of the principal Visa holder.  
 
34          Conversion of Employment Visa 
 
Employment Visa will  be non-convertible to any other type of visa  except in specific cases.  
Regarding conversion of Employment visa to other categories of visa, please see the general 
policy guidelines relating to Indian visa on this website.   
 
35 Conversion of ‘E-3X’ visas to ‘E’ visas of the spouse of an employee on intra -company 
transfer. 
 
 The conversion of ‘E-3X’ (Entry) visa of the spouse of an employee on intra -company transfer 
into Employment Visa may be  permitted within the country , subject to the applicant fulfilling all 
the conditions laid down for grant of Employment Visa , with prior approval of the Ministry of 
Home Affairs.  
 
36  Conversion of ‘X -2’ Visa of nationals of Bangladesh married to Indian nationals into 
Employment Visa. 
 
‘X-2’ Visa of nationals of Bangladesh married to Indian nationals, but not entitled to registration 
as OCI cardholder,  may be converted into Employment Visa, on application, b y the Ministry of 
Home Affairs.  He/ she must draw a minimum salary of Rs. 9.10 lakhs per annum.   The period of 
such visa will be for one year and can be extended on an yearly basis (without any limit) by the 
FRRO  /FRO concerned.  Any change in the employer will be permitted only with the prior 
approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs (Foreigners Division) .   If he/she discontinues the 
employment, his/her visa may be converted into ‘X-2’ Visa. 
 
37         Change of Employer 
 
No change of employer shall be permitted during the currency of the Employment Visa, except in 
cases of change of employment be tween a registered holding company, Joint Ventures & 
Consortiums and its subsidiaries and vice- versa or between subsidiaries of a registered holding  
company, Joint Ventures & Consortiums. Change of employment would be permitted at a senior 
level e.g. managerial or a senior executive position and/ or at a skilled position e.g. a technical 
expert.   Prior permission of the Ministry of Home Affairs is required for change of employment.   
 
 
 
 
10 
 
VII PROJECT VISA 
 
38 Eligibility 
 
 Project  visa is granted to foreign nationals coming to India for execution of projects in the power 
and steel sectors, subject to the following conditions:- 
 
(1) The Visa would be project specific.  In no circumstances would the person be allowed to 
be engaged in another project either of the same company or of a different company. 
 
(2)  The period of visa would be initially for a period of one year or for the actual duration of 
the project/ contract, whichever is less, with multiple -entry facility.  The visa can be 
extended for another one year  by the State Government/ UT Administration concerned.  
Any further extension of visa can be granted only by the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
 
(3) The Project Visa would be issued only for skilled/highly skilled persons.   However, the 
Missions/Posts may grant visa for not more than two chefs and two  interpreters. 
 
(4) A person coming on Project Visa will not be allowed to take up employment in the same 
Indian company for a period of two years from the date of commissioning of the project.  
 
(5) The Indian Company engaging the foreign national for executing the project / contract 
would be responsible for the conduct of the foreign national during his/her stay in India 
and also for the departure of such foreign national upon expiry of visa. 
 
(6) In case the p roject/contract site falls i n the Protected/Restricted Area, the grant of PAP/ 
RAP should be integrated with the grant of Project Visa.   In all such cases, prior 
clearance of the Ministry of Home Affairs shall be obtained.   
 
(7) The foreigner coming on P roject Visa will have to register himself/herself with the 
FRRO/FRO concerned within 14 days of arrival if the validity of visa is for more than 
180 days.  If the validity of visa is for a period of 180 days or less, registration would not 
be required. 
 
39 Sector specific ceilings  
 
 Sector-specific ceilings on the maximum number of Project Visas allowed for each project in 
Power and Steel sectors are given below:- 
 
A.  Power 
 
(i) A block of two units may be considered as one project. 
 
(ii)  Where the main plant   equipment ─ Boiler, Turbine, Generator  (BTG)  ─  and its sub -
systems are  sourced from foreign Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM), the 
maximum number of foreign personnel allowed may vary from 50 to 70. 
 
(iii) For an Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) project, where the main plant 
and equipment, its sub-systems and full or part of the Balance of Plant (BOP) is sourced 
from foreign OEM, the maximum number of foreign personnel allowed may vary from 
76 to 125.   This would be for an EP C project consisting of two units of 660 MW and 
above with supercritical technology. 
 
 In case, the number of units is more than two in a project, the maximum number of 
foreign personnel allowed would be as indicated below:- 
11 
 
 
Additional unit 
(admissible to  additional 
units resulting in project 
size exceeding 600 MW 
capacity) 
Where main plant 
equipment (BTG) and its 
sub-systems are sourced 
from foreign OEM 
EPC project where main 
plant and equipment, its 
sub-systems and full or part 
of the Balance of Plant 
(BOP) is sourced from 
foreign OEM 
1st additional Unit 105 187 
2nd additional Unit 122 219 
3rd additional Unit 140 250 
4th additional Unit 157 281 
   
(Note: To qualify as a separate project for additional units at the same location, a gap of 
minimum one year in the date of award of contract shall be considered necessary between two 
such projects) 
 
(iv) Wherever, for a project, Flue Gas Desulphurization System (FGD) is also sourced from a 
foreign supplier, an additional number of 25 foreign personnel is re commended.  For a 
project with larger numbers of units (more than two), the additional number of foreign 
personnel would be as follows: 
 
 1st additional unit  -   37 
 2nd additional unit -   44 
 3rd additional unit -    50 
 4th additional unit -    56 
  B. Steel 
 
(i) In case of green field projects – 10% of the total skilled manpower deployed per million 
tonne capacity or 300 persons, whichever is lower. 
(ii) For Brownfield projects –  5% of the total skilled manpower deployed per million tonne 
capacity or 150 persons, whichever is lower. 
 
(iii) The total manpower requirements of the project should be determined at the stage of 
conceptualization of the project by the sponsoring authority with a flow chart. 
 
(iv) Foreign manpower requirement beyond the above limits may be examined by a Standing 
Committee having members from Ministries concerned. 
 
(v) For the purpose of determining the capacity of the unit, it should be the approved 
capacity as certified by the Ministry concerned of the Government of India in respect of 
PSUs.  I n respect of Private sector Steel units, the basis of capacity may be as per the 
financial disclosure statement of a Scheduled Bank or RBI -approved Non Banking 
Financial Company (NBFC) duly authenticated and certified. 
 
(vi) For ongoing projects with contractua l obligation, deployment of foreign personnel may 
exceed the guidelines based on examination by the Ministry of Labour & Employment on 
the merits of each case.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
VIII. BUSINESS VISA 
 
40 Eligibility 
 
 A Business visa is granted to a foreigner for the following purposes –  
 
(i)  Foreign nationals who wish to visit India to establish an industrial/business venture or to 
explore possibilities to set up an industrial/business venture, other than Proprietorship 
Firms and Partnership Firms, in India. 
 
(ii) Foreign nationals coming to India to purchase/sell industrial products or commercial 
products or consumer durables. 
 
(iii) Foreign nationals coming to India for technical meetings/discussions, attending Board 
meetings or general meetings for providing business services support. 
 
(iv) Foreign nationals coming to India for recruitment of manpower. 
 
(v) Foreign nationals who are partners in the business and/or functioning as Directors of the 
company. 
 
(vi) Foreign nationals coming to India for consultations reg arding exhibitions or for 
participation in exhibitions, trade fairs, business fairs  etc. 
 
(vii) Foreign buyers who come to transact business with suppliers/ potential suppliers at 
locations in India, to evaluate or monitor quality, give specifications, pl ace orders, 
negotiate further supplies etc., relating to goods or services procured from India. 
 
(viii) Foreign experts/specialists on a visit of short duration in connection with an ongoing 
project with the objective of monitoring the progress of the work , conducting meetings 
with Indian customers and/or to provide technical guidance. 
 
(ix) Foreign nationals coming to India for pre -sales or post -sales activity not amounting to 
actual execution of any contract or project. 
 
(x) Foreign trainees of multinational companies/corporate houses coming for in- house 
training in the regional hubs of the concerned company located in India. 
 
(xi) Foreign nationals coming as tour conductors and travel agents and / or conducting 
business tours of foreigners or business relating to it, etc. 
 
 (xii) Foreign academicians/ experts coming under GIAN (Global Initiative for Academic 
Networks). 
 
 (xiii)  Crew members of scheduled/ non- scheduled flights operated by scheduled airlines, non-
scheduled and chartered flights operated by non-scheduled airlines and special flights. 
 
 (xiv) Foreign nationals intending to visit India to participate in cultural events/ activities with 
remuneration. [Such foreign nationals intending to visit India to participate in cultural 
events/ activities for short duration without remuneration may be granted Entry (X-Misc.) 
Visa.] 
 
 (xv)    Foreign nationals who are engaged in commercial sports events in India on contract 
(including coaches) like Indian Premier League, Indian Soccer League, etc. with 
remuneration.  They may be granted ‘B-Sports’ Visa with multiple entry facility for 
13 
 
appropriate period.  Such a foreign national shall comply with all the statutory obligations 
like payment of taxes, etc.    
 
41 Conditions for grant of Business Visa 
 
(i)   The foreign national should be a person of assured financial standing (sufficient proof of 
his/ her financial standing and expertise in the field of intended business will be checked 
thoroughly while granting the visa). 
 
(ii)  The foreign national should not be visiting India for the business of money lending or for 
running a petty business or petty trade or for full time employment in India, etc.  
 
(iii)  The foreign national shall comply with all other requirements like payment of tax 
liabilities etc. 
 
42 Duration of Business Visa & other conditions 
 
 (A) Validity of  Business visa will be as specified below:    
  
(i) Business Visa may be granted with 10 years validity with  multiple entry facility 
to the citizens of the United States of America or Canada or Japan  or Untied 
Kingdom or South Africa .  This visa shall  be issued with the stipulation that 
“continuous stay during each visit shall not exceed 180 days and registration 
not required.”   
 
(ii) In respect of nationals of other countries (except for nationals of 33 countries 
mentioned below), Multiple entry Business Visa may be granted for a period of  
5 years as a default option.   Grant of 5 -year Tourist Visa will be with the 
stipulation “Continuous stay during each visit shall not exceed  180  days and 
registration not required”.     
 
(iii) In respect of nationals of  30 countries i.e.  (1) Iran ,  (2) Egypt , (3) Libya , (4) 
Qatar, (5) Iraq, (6)  Syria, (7) Sudan, (8) Tunisia, (9) Kuwait , (10)Yemen,  ( 11) 
Algeria, (12) Bahrain, (13) Turkey,  (14) Morocco , (15) K yrgyzstan, (16) 
Turkmenistan, (17)  Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (North Korea), (18) 
Lebanon,  (19)  Afghanistan, (20) Saudi Arabia , (21) Uganda, (22) Congo , (23) 
Ethiopia, (24) Nigeria , (25) Belarus, (26)  Somalia, (27) South Sudan, (28) 
Kazakhstan,  (29)  Uzbekistan and (30)  Sri Lanka , duration of visa will be 
decided by the concerned Indian Missions/ Posts subject to a maximum of 5 
years with the stipulat ion “continous stay during each visit shall not exceed 
180  days and registration not required”.  
 
(iv) In respect  of nationals of Bangladesh, China  and Pakistan ,   provisions as 
available in the bilateral agreements/ policy guidelines, as issued from time to 
time, will be applicable. 
 
 (B) In the case of urgent request, the Indian Missions/ Posts may provide visa for business 
travel within 48 hours of application. 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
43 Specific provisions relating to the grant of Business Visa to Chinese nationals. 
  
Business visa may be granted to Chinese nationals under the following three broad categories:   
 
(a) Missions/Posts abroad may grant 6 months multiple entry B -visa to Chinese 
nationals who can produce a letter of invitation from a ‘Recognized Indian 
Organization’ with the stipulation that the period of stay shall be less than 90 
days on each visit . [‘Recognized Indian Organization’, referred to above means 
recognized chambers of commerce or industry associations or other trade 
bodies, public sector undertakings, government approved joint ventures, liaison 
offices or private sector companies who are members of a recognized chamber of 
commerce or industry association or other trade body.] 
 
(b) The Missions/Posts abroad may grant 60 days single entry visa to Chinese 
nationals who cannot produce any invitation letter from a recognized Indian 
organization but produces a letter of request from a duly authorized Chinese 
organization. [‘Duly authorized Chinese Organization’ referred to above means 
Ministries and Commissions of State Council, the Governments of all Provinces, 
Autonomous Regions and Municipalities directly under the Central Government, 
and Foreign Offices & Bureaus of Economy and Commerce thereunder and 
departments and units recognized by the Department of Consular Affairs of the 
Ministry of  Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China.] 
 
 (c)  The Head of Mission/Head of Post may approve issuance of short term single 
entry B -visa to Chinese nationals not exceeding 60 days, who cannot produce  
any documentary proof referred at (a) and (b) above. 
   
 B-visa of Chinese nationals may be extended by FRRO / FRO concerned as follows: 
 
(i) FRRO / FRO concerned  may extend the 180 days B -visa up to one year with 
multiple entry visa facility, on a recommendation of the ‘Recognized Indian 
Organization’ and on being satisfied about the genuine and bonafide business 
activities. 
 
(ii) FRRO / FRO concerned  may, depending on a case -to-case basis and on merits, 
extend 60 days B -visa up to 180 days with multiple  entry visa facility, on a 
recommendation from the ‘Recognized Indian Organization’ and on being 
satisfied about the genuine and bonafide business activities. 
   
44 
Registration 
 
 All Business Visa holders are required to register themselves with the FRRO/  FRO concerned in 
case the aggregate stay in India on Business Visa exceeds 180 days during a calendar year. 
 
45 Other conditions 
 
Business Visa  shall be non -convertible to any other type of visa  except in specific cases.  
Regarding conversion of Business Visa to other categories of visa, please see the general policy 
guidelines relating to Indian visa on this website.   
 
 
 
 
15 
 
46  Grant of extension of stay to foreigners holding a Business visa 
 
In case Business visa is granted for a period less than five years by the Indian Missions, the same 
can be extended up to a maximum period of five years subject to  the gross sales/turnover from 
the business activities, for which the foreigner has been gra nted visa, is not less than Rs.1 crore 
per annum (to be achieved within 2 years of setting up the business or date of initial grant of  B 
visa, whichever is earlier)  [ This condition will be applicable in case of Business Visa covered 
under para  40 (i) above.] In other categories, visa extension shall be subject to submission of 
documents of proof of doing business/ consultancy.   Extension of Business Visa may be granted 
by the FRRO /FRO  concerned on year-to-year basis. The period of extension shall not be beyond 
five years from the date of issue of the Business visa.  
 
47 Visa to family members of a foreigner granted Business visa 
 
Family members/dependants of a foreigner who is granted  `B'  visa shall be granted dependant 
visa of appropriate sub-category. Its validity shall be co-terminus with the validity of the visa of 
the principal visa holder or for such shorter period as may be considered necessary by the Indian 
Mission. Such family members may also be granted Student/ Research Visa, etc provided they are 
otherwise eligible for grant of such a visa.  
 
48 Grant of India Business Card to Businessmen from SAARC countries 
 
An India Business Card will be issued to businessmen from SAARC countries who are eligible 
for a multiple entry Business Visa for a period of three years or more.  The validity of the India 
Business Card will be co- terminus with th e validity of the Business Visa.  T he India Business 
Card will help in facilitation at the immigration counters for expeditious imm igration clearance. 
The businessman issued such an India Business Card will also have to carry the passport 
containing the Business Visa sticker for entry into India.   On issue of a fresh Business Visa, a 
fresh India Business Card will be issued.  While submitting the application for a fresh Business 
Visa, the individual will have to surrender the India Business Card already issued.  
 
49 Grant of Permanent Residency Status (PRS) to foreign investors 
 
Permanent Residency Status (PRS) will be granted to foreign investors making investment under 
Foreign Direct Investment (FDI ) route.  This scheme will not be applicable to Pakistani citizens 
or third country nationals of Pakistani origin.    To be eligible, the foreign investor should invest a 
minimum of Rs. 10 crores to be brought within 18 months or Rs.25 crores to be brought within 
36 months. The foreign investment should result in generating employment to at least 20 resident 
Indians in every  financial year. This scheme will be applicable to only foreign investors fulfilling 
the above mentioned el igibility conditions, his/ her spouse and dependents.  Top management 
executives will not be covered by this scheme and they will have to come on normal Employment 
Visa. 
 
The foreign investor promising investment as per the aforesaid threshold limit will be granted an 
initial business visa  ‘B-4 Visa (Investor) ’ for 18 months or 36 months, as the case may be 
(depending on the level of investment promised) , without any stay stipulation. There will be no 
requirement of registration with FRRO / FRO concerned.  Spouse and dependents of the investor 
will be granted ‘B -4X’  Visa co -terminus with the Business Visa of the investor on the same 
terms and conditions.  After fulfillment of the eligibility conditions , the foreign investor and his/ 
her spouse/ dependents may submit an application for Permanent Residency Status (PRS) online 
to the FRRO/ FRO concerned.       
 
16 
 
PRS will be granted for a period of 10 years with multiple entry.  This can be renewed for another 
10 years.   There will be no requirement of registration with the FRRO/ FRO concerned.  Foreign 
investor holding PRS will be required to submit to the FRRO/ FRO concerned every year a copy 
of the Form FC-GPR,  the Annual Return on Foreign Liabilities and Asse ts filed with RBI by the 
Indian company receiving FDI & the RBI’s acknowledgement letter to that effect and the Income 
Tax Return filed before the Income Tax Department  so to ensure that he/she is fulfilling the 
conditions regarding investment.   He/ she will also be required to submit to the FRRO/ FRO 
concerned every year details regarding employment generation for resident Indians based on self-
certification by the statutory auditor of the Indian investee company. 
 
If the PRS cardholder is staying in a H otel or Lodge, it is mandatory for the hotel keepers/ others 
to submit Form ‘C’ (Appendix  V ) to the FRRO/ FRO concerned.    PRS holder should inform 
change of address/ change of passport to the FRRO/ FRO concerned.  
 
 PRS will serve as a multiple entry visa without any stay stipulation.   PRS holders will be allowed 
to purchase one residential property for dwelling purpose.  Transfer of immovable property 
acquired by PRS holder under the PRS Scheme needs to comply with the provisions of FEMA 
Regulations.  Spouse/ dependents of the investor who are granted PRS will be allowed to take up 
employment in private sector on the basis of the PRS with the permission of the FRRO/ FRO 
concerned.  The minimum salary limit of Rs. 16.25 lakhs per annum prescribed for gra nt of 
Employment visa to foreign nationals will not be applicable in such cases.  Spouse/ dependents of 
the investor who are granted PRS can undertake studies in India without a separate Student Visa. 
No specific permission will be required from FRRO/ FRO concerned for this purpose.  However, 
prior to undertaking studies in India, they shall intimate concerned FRRO/ FRO about the details 
of the institution wherein they are seeking admission along with duration & subject of the course.   
 
IX STUDENT AND RESEARCH VISA 
 
50  Eligibility 
 
 A Student visa is granted to a foreigner  whose sole objective is to pursue on- campus, full time 
(structured) courses (including English and other language courses and vocational education) at 
educational institutions (Central/ State Government Educational Institutions & Private 
Educational Instit utions) duly recognized by statutory regulatory body  and have acquired 
statutory authorization to conduct the course(s) complying with GST  regulations.  The foreigner 
should produce proof of admission to a  full  time course  in  a recognized  educational  institution  
in India.  In case of admission in a medical or para -medical course, the foreigner should produce  
a  letter  of  approval  or a " No Objection Certificate" from the Ministry of Health.  The foreigner 
should be  a person of assured financial s tanding (A letter of support from the parent/guardian 
accompanied by a bank guarantee/ certificate may be accepted for this purpose).  The foreigners 
should also produce evi dence  of transfer of adequate funds for at least 4  months sustenance  in  
India,  or produces travelers  cheques  for  a similar amount. 
 
 Note:   
 
(1)  No Student Visa will be issued to foreign nationals sponsored by franchise Educational 
Institutes running off -campus centres, Study Centres of Open Universities offering 
distance learn ing programmes, Educational Institutes running “outreach” programmes 
and offering courses without any statutory sanction from regulatory authorities. 
 
(2)  Student Visa will not be issued for pursuing ‘Short Term Courses’ in India which are not 
recognized.  List of recognized courses under vocational education is available in the 
website of All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) – www.aicte-india.org.  
17 
 
 
(3)  Student Visa holders are required to open NRO account (Non Resident Ordinary) in India 
and the details of such NRO account is to be furnished to FRRO / FRO  concerned during 
registration / visa extension, as proof of financial sustenance. 
 
(4) Indian Missions/ Posts shall obtain prior clearance of the Ministry of Home Affairs for 
issue of Protected Area Permit (PAP)/ Restricted Area Permit (RAP) if the place of study 
falls within the Protected/ Restricted Area.  
  
(5) At the time of admission, the Educational Institutions s hall inform the foreign student as 
to whether the said Educational Institution falls within the Protected/ Restricted Area 
notified by the Government.   In case, the Educational institution falls within the 
Protected/ Restricted Area,  the Educational Institution concerned shall advice the foreign 
student to obtain PAP/ RAP from the Indian Mission/ Post concerned while applying for 
Student Visa. 
 
 (6) Student visa may also be granted to foreigners for joining the following private 
Institutions for the duration of the course or for one year, whichever is less, and on the 
conditions prescribed:  (1) NIIT, (2)  APTECH , (3) Tata Infotech ,  (4) Software 
Technology Group , and (5) DSK Global Education & Research Limited, Pune 
 
These institutions must be conduc ting course(s) at their own educational/ institutional 
premises and not at franchise educational institute or off-campus centre. 
 
 
51    Validity 
 
Indian Missions/ Posts may grant Student visa to nationals of all countries for a maximum period 
up to five years or for the duration of the academic course of study, whichever is less (excluding 
nationals of  Pakistan and Bangladesh).  The validity of Stu dent Visa shall not exceed 5 years. A 
maximum of four  entries per academic year may be allowed to foreign students.  In emergency 
situations, additional entries may be granted by  FRRO  / FRO  concerned with prior permission 
obtained from the University/Educational institution.  Grant of visa to nationals of Bangladesh 
and Pakistan will be governed by the  procedure / stipulations prescribed separately.  Please see 
‘Visa for Bangladeshi nationals’ and ‘Visa for Pakistani nationals’ on this website. 
 
52  Conditions for student visa 
 
  The grant of student visa shall be subject to the following guidelines:  
 
(i)  A foreign student will be permitted to change his/ her course for a maximum of three 
times during the currency of a Student Visa.  In case of any further change in the course, 
the foreign national will have to obtain a fresh Student Visa from the Indian Mi ssion/ 
Post abroad.  
 
(ii) There will be no restriction with reference to the number of courses a student wants to 
avail of in one institution or multiple institutions, provided the institutions are recognized. 
 
(iii)  In case a foreign student wants to change a course midway and join another course, the 
period of validity of visa will be counted from the initial date of issue of visa. 
 
(iv)  Every University and Educational Institution shall furnish to the FRRO/ FRO concerned 
information in respect of foreign students enrolled in the University or the Educational 
Institution in Form  A (Appendix – VI ) within the period mentioned therein.   
 
18 
 
(v)    There may be a course requirement to complete industrial training/ summer project 
/internship etc. which may be a part of the prescribed  curriculum.  No special permission 
is required for completion of  such industrial training / internship etc.   
 Note: 
 
   Change of institution shall be allowed if student has reasonable ground of insufficient 
 infrastructure, paucity of facility, unavailability of the course of their choice or either of 
 them. 
 
53  Provisional Visa for Students  
 
In case the applicant does not have a firm letter of admission from the university / recognized 
college or educational institution, the Missions/ Posts may grant a ‘Provisional Student Visa’ on 
the basis of provisional admission certificate / letter of offer or advertisement for admission to 
foreign students issued by the University / recognized college or educ ational institution in India.  
‘Provisional  Student Visa’ shall be valid  for a period of six months which shall be extendable by 
the jurisdictional  FRRO/FRO for a period up to six months on production of a copy of his/ her 
application for admission to a n educational institution and letter from the educational institution 
concerned confirming receipt of his/ her application for admission.  In case the Student gets 
regular admission in some  University / recognized /  reputed  college or educational instit ution 
within the validity of the provisional visa, the  FRRO  / FRO concerned is empowered to grant a 
regular ‘Student Visa’ for the duration of the course or for a period of five years,  whichever is 
less. These provisions will not be applicable for ‘Theological Studies’.   
 
54 Registration, renewal of residential permits, exit permit and transfer of 
University/educational institution 
 
(i) A foreign student arriving on a Provisional Student Visa/Student Visa may be allowed 
provisional registration by the FRRO/FRO concerned within 14 days from the date of 
arrival in India for nationals of all countries except Pakistan.  In the case of Pakistan 
nationals, registration is to be done within 24 hours of arrival at the specified place of 
stay.   At the time of provisional registration, the foreign nationals should produce their 
valid passports and visas, bonafide student certificate from the educat ional institution 
concerned and provisional address issued by the Head of Department or Principal or the 
Director of the International Studies Centre of the University/educational institution 
concerned.   
 
(ii) The final registration should be done within a period of 90 days from the date of arrival 
on production of a proof of permanent residence (which would include regular hostel 
accommodation).  
 
(iii) Registration and renewal of residential permits will be done within one day after receipt 
of the application complete in all respects. 
 
(iv) All requests for transfer of University or educational institution would be cleared within a 
period of 15 days in case of transfer of University / educational institution within the 
jurisdiction of the same FRRO/FRO, a nd within 60 days in cases which involve transfer 
of University / educational institution to another FRRO/FRO on production of original 
cancellation certificate issued by the existing University or educational institution and 
admission confirmation certifi cate issued by the new University or educational 
institution. 
 
19 
 
(v) In case a foreigner on Student Visa discontinues his/ her course of study abruptly and 
voluntarily seek ‘Exit’ from India, FRRO/ FRO concerned is empowered to cancel his/ 
her Student Visa without prejudice. 
 
55 Extension of Student visa 
 
Foreign students who fail to qualify a course within the prescribed course period may also be 
granted extension of visa for a maximum of three attempts beyond the original course period as 
long as the concerned University/ Institution permits the student t o complete the course.     
FRROs / FROs are empowered  to grant permission to change the course or educational 
institution / extend ‘Student Visa’.  
 
56  Theological studies 
 
A student visa ( S-8) may be granted for the duration of the course or for a period of one year, 
whichever is less,  to foreigners who want to come to India for  theological studies  in the 
Universities/Institutions mentioned below:- 
 
(1) Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh 
(2) University of Kolkata, Kolkata 
(3) Jamia Hamdard, Hamdard Nagar, New Delhi 
(4) Jamia Milia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 
(5) Osmania University, Hyderabad 
(6) Gujarat University, Ahmedabad 
(7) North Maharashtra University, Jalgaon 
(8) University of Calicut, Calicut 
(9) Kerala University, Thiruvananthapuram 
(10) University of Mumbai, Mumba 
(11) M.S. University of Baroda, Vadodara 
 
Visa in all other cases (except for studies in institutions/ universities mentioned above ) for 
theological studies shall be granted only after obtaining  prior clearance from  the Ministry of 
Home Affairs. 
 
57 
Scholarship-holders and trainees 
 
(a)  Student visa ( S-6) may be granted for the duration of the training or for a period of one 
year, whichever is less, to a foreign scholar or trainee coming to India under -  (i) the 
Technical Co-operation  Scheme of the Colombo Plan;   (ii) any scholarship or exchange  
scheme sponsored  by a Ministry of the Government of India;  (iii) the sponsorship of an 
International Organization like UNESCO, WHO  etc; ,  (iv) the combined auspices of  the  
United  States International  Co-operation  Administration  and  the   local authorities and  
(v) internship as part of curriculum. 
  
 (b) A foreigner visiting  India under various ITEC programs for  training, including military 
training programs, may be granted a Student  visa ( S-6) for the entire duration of the 
course, irrespective of the type of passport they hold. A foreigner travelling on a private 
passport, if issued with  a visa  for more than 180  days,  shall  undergo registration  
formalities, as per rules.  
 
(c) A foreign er coming to India for training  upto  three months,  whose  application is 
sponsored  by  the  United Nations  or  its Specialised agencies, may be  granted  a 
Student visa (S-6) provided the Ministry concerned has approved  the  proposed training. 
20 
 
 
(d) Serving defence personnel from foreign countries coming to India as trainees to defence 
training establishments may also be granted Student (S-6) visa. 
   
58  Visa for Students , Faculty and Staff of the South Asian University (SAU) and Nalanda 
University 
 
Students of the South Asian University and Nalanda University will be issued Student Visa ( S-7) 
for the validity/ duration of the pre -specified course/ tenure with four entries per academic year.  
In emergency situations, additional entries may be granted by FRRO/ FRO concerned with prior 
permission obtained from SAU / Nalanda University .   FRRO/ FRO concerned may extend the 
visa, where required.  The students coming on the above visa would have to register themselves 
within 14 days of their arrival in Indi a, at the office of the concerned FRRO/FRO.  Staff/ faculty 
coming to join the South Asian University and Nalanda University  will be granted Employment 
(E-5) Visa.   
 
59      Special provisions relating to the grant of Student Visa to Chinese nationals 
 
Mission/ posts may grant Student visa  to Chinese nationals under two broad categories –  
 
(i)  those who will be coming for studies under self finance, and  
 
(ii) those who will be coming under cultural exchange programme or education exchange 
programme or other mutually approved programme. 
 
A three months Student Visa may be granted by the Mission/Posts to Chinese nationals under the 
category mentioned in (i)  above.   All Chinese students granted S-visa will be required to register 
with FRRO/ FRO concerned within 14 days after arrival in India. 
 
Mission/Post abroad may grant Student Visa ( S-6) for the full duration of the course to Students 
covered under the category mentioned in (ii) above on presentation of the recommendation of the 
concerned Government agency. They would be required to register within 14  days of arrival in 
India. 
 
Student visa shall be extended for the first year by the Ministry of Home Affairs .  Subsequent 
extensions up to the duration of the course with two entries every year may be granted by FRRO / 
FRO concerned. In case there is change in institution/course/ pl ace of registra tion of a Chinese 
Student, FRRO / FRO concerned may seek the approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
  
60 Specific provisions relating to the grant of Student visa to Japanese nationals 
 
A multiple entry student visa  may be granted to a  Japanese national valid for up to five years, or 
the duration of the course, whichever is shorter, on presentation of a letter of confirmed 
admission from a recognized educational institution, proof of finances to cover travelling 
expenses and other expenditure in India. The Japanese applicant shall be required to register 
himself/herself with the concerned FRRO for a residence permit within 14 days of his or her 
arrival.   There will be no restriction with reference to the number of c ourses a Japanese student 
wants to avail in one institution or multiple institutions, provided the institutions are recognized. 
In case a Japanese student wishes to change a course midway and join another course, the period 
of validity of the residence per mit will be adjusted to the duration of the latter course.   In the 
case of applicants covered under the Cultural Exchange Programme or the Education 
Exchange Programme or other mutually approved Programme, a Student  visa (S-6) may 
21 
 
be granted on presentati on of a letter of authorization from the concerned Government 
body. 
 
61  Research Visa 
 
(i) A Research Visa  is issued to a foreign research scholar for a period of 3 years or for the 
duration of the research project, whichever is earlier.    
 
 (ii) Research Visa may be extended by FRRO /FRO  concerned.  The total period of the Visa 
may be restricted to the duration of the project as approved by the Institute of Affiliation 
or five years, whichever is less. Such foreign scholars may, if required, also be giv en 
extension for a period of not more than six months as the last and final extension even 
after completion of the project.  
 
 (iii) Foreign Student Advisers, Administrative Officers or Registrars of educational 
institutions will report on the first working day of every quarter to the "concerned 
Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO)/ Foreigners Registration Office (FRO) 
concerned confirming that the foreign research scholars are studying in their institutions, 
and indicating any changes of residence.  
 
 (iv) Those foreign students who are already in India and who wish to pursue research 
programmes after completing their studies in India would also be dealt with in a similar 
manner. The FRRO/ FRO concerned may convert a student visa into a research visa if the 
student can furnish documentary proof of admission in a research programme and of 
adequate financial resources.    
 
(v) In cases which involve research on subjects related to the foreigner's own country, the 
research scholar will be required to furnish a brief synopsis of the research proposal in 
about 150 words and giving full justification (including the benefit he/she would get) for 
doing the research in India.  
 
(vi) OCI cardholders would require special permission to undertake research work in India.  
Such permission may be granted by the Indian Missions/ Posts abroad .  In the case of 
OCI cardholders who are residing in India, the applications may be submitted to the 
FRRO/ FRO concerned who may grant such permission.   
  
(vii)  Change of subject or institution of affiliation on Research Visa will not be normally 
allowed.   
 
62  Visas for foreign professors, other teachers and scholars  
 
For professors, teachers and scholars who are invited as visiting faculty, the powers to issue visa 
are delegated to India Missions/Posts abroad on the same lines as for the research scholars. The 
Indian Missions/Posts will be authorized to issue visa (R-2) based on an invitation from a Central 
educational institution or publicly funded State University.  
 
63  Grant of Visa to the members of Botanical, Scientific, Anthropological etc. expeditions  
 
An application for the grant of visa in s uch cases shall be referred to the Ministry of Home 
Affairs at least four months in a dvance with copy to the Ministry of External Affairs and the 
Ministry of Science  & Technology .   Members of such expeditions may be granted Research 
Visa (R-4).  The members of the expedition may be required to take with them a liaison officer 
deputed by the agency concerned of the Government of India. Approval of the designated agency 
of the Government of India will also be necessary to take out of India any speci mens etc. 
22 
 
collected during the expedition as per such conditions as may be prescribed by the Ministry of 
Science & Technology and other agencies concerned.  Such expeditions will NOT be permitted to 
visit any protected, restricted or tribal area without the specific prior permission of the Ministry of 
Home Affairs.  
 
64  Study of yoga/ vedic culture / Indian systems of dance / music    
 
Indian  Missions/Posts may grant a Student  visa ( S-5)  to  persons coming for studying  yoga,  
vedic  culture, Indian  systems  of  dance / music etc.,  at the institutions approved by the 
Government of India and listed in Appendix VII for a period of 5 years/ 3 years/ 1 year as the 
case may be or for the duration  of the  course,  whichever  is  less.  He/ she should produce proof 
that he/she has secured admissi on there for the proposed study.  He/ she should be  properly 
sponsored by the institution that he/ she proposes to join.  Such Student Visa holders are required 
to open NRO account (Non Resident Ordinary) in India and the details of such NRO account is to 
be furnished to FRRO/ FRO concerned during registration / visa extension, as proof of financial 
sustenance. 
  
 The three year / one year visa can be further extended on a year to year basis for the duration of 
the course subject to a maximum period of up to five years  from the date of issue of initial visa  
which may be granted by the FRRO/FRO concerned on the basis of due sponsorship by the 
Institution. 
 
 
65  Visas for foreign nationals coming for Buddhist studies 
 
(1) Indian Missions/Posts may grant a Student Visa ( S-5) to a foreign national coming for 
Buddhist studies in any of the Institutions mentioned below up to a period of 5 years, or 
for the duration of the course, whichever is less:- 
 
(i) Sera Je Secondary School, P.O. Bylakuppe, Mysore District, Karnataka. 
 
(ii) Himalaya Buddhist Cultural School, P.O. Box 74, Village Rangri, P.O. Manali,  
District Kullu (H.P.) 
 
(iii) Gyuto Tantric University  (Ramoche Temple), P.O. Sidhbari, Dharamsala, 
District Kangra, H.P. 
 
(iv) Sera Jey Monastic University for Advanced Buddhist Studies & Practice, 
Bylakuppe, Mysore District, Karnataka. 
 
(v) Drepung Gomang Monastery, Mundgod, Karnataka. 
 
(vi) Lower Tantric College, Hunsur, Karnataka. 
 
(vii) Upper Tantric College (Gyuto), Sidhbari, Dharamsala, H.P. 
 
(viii) Menriling Monastery, Solan, H.P. 
 
(ix) Tibetan Medical and Astrological Institute, Dharamsala, H.P. 
 
(x) Namdrolling Monastery, Bylakuppe , Karnataka. 
 
23 
 
(xi) Drikung Kagyu Jangchubling, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 
 
(xii) Sakya Centre, Rajpur, U.P. 
 
(xiii) College for Higher Tibetan Studies, Dharamsala, H.P. 
 
(xiv) Central University for Tibetan Studies, Sarnath, Varanasi, U.P. 
 
(xv) Tushita Meditation Center, Dharamkot, Himachal Pradesh  
 
(xvi) Sera Mey Dratsang Cultural Society (R), Bylakuppe, Karnataka  
 
(xvii) Sera Mey Monastic University, Bulakuppe, Karnataka 
 
(xviii) Rinchen Choeling Nunnery Sakyapa Nunnery, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 
 
(xix) Takten Phuntsok Choling Janan Monastery, Sanjouli, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh 
 
(xx) Tsogyal Shedupling Nunnery Nyingmapa Nunnery, Bylakuppe, Karnataka 
 
(xxi) Chodhe Tashi Lhunpo Monastery, Gelukpa Monastery, Bylakuppe, Karnataka 
 
(xxii) Drepung Loseling Monastery Lama Camp No.2, Tibetan Colony, Mundgod, 
District Karwar, Karnataka 
 
(xxiii) Garden Shartse Monastery Lama Camp No.1, Tibetan Colony, Mundgod, 
District Karwar, Karnataka 
 
(xxiv) Garden Jangtse Monastery Lama Camp No.1, Tibetan Colony, Mundgod, 
District Karwar, Karnataka 
 
(xxv) Library of Tibetan Works and Archives (LTWA), Gangchen Kyishong, 
Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh 
 
(xxvi) Institute of Buddhist Dialectics (IBD), Macleod Ganj, Dharamsala, Himachal 
Pradesh 
 
(xxvii) Dolma Ling Nunnery (DLN), Sidhpur, Dharamsala, Himachal Pradesh 
 
(2)   In case Student Visa is granted by the Indian Mission/ Post for a period of less than 5 
years, the visa can be extended by FRRO/ FRO concerned on year to year basis for a 
maximum period of 5 years from the date of issue of initial visa subject to due 
sponsorship by the Institution.  
 
 Grant of  Student Visa in such cases will be, inter alia, subject to the fulfillment of the 
following conditions- (i) he/she produces proof that he/she has secured admissi on there 
for the proposed study; (iii)  he/she is properly sponsored by the institution that he/she 
proposes to join.  Such Student Visa holders are required to open NRO account (Non 
Resident Ordinary) in India and the details of such NRO account is to be furn ished to 
FRROs/ FROs concerned during registration / visa extension, as proof of financial 
sustenance. 
24 
 
66 Visa for dependents 
 
(a) No dependent visa will be granted to parents/ other family members of a minor child 
below 18 years of age coming on Student Visa.  However, parents/ other family members 
of such a minor child can be granted any other type of visa subject to their fulfillin g the 
eligibility conditions for the same.  
 
(b) In the case of a foreign national coming on Student visa for higher education (graduation 
and above) and on Research visa, spouse and minor children accompanying the foreign 
national may be granted dependent visa of appropriate sub-category.   Its validity shall be 
co-terminus with the validity of the visa of the latter or for such shorter period as may be 
considered necessary by the Indian Mission/Post. Such family members may also obtain 
Student/ Research Visa, if required, subject to their fulfilling the conditions laid down for 
the grant of such visa.   
 
(b) Dependent visa of spouse and minor children of a foreign national who is granted Student 
/Research visa may be extended by the FRRO/ FRO concerned beyond the initial validity 
period co-terminus with the visa of the principal visa holder subject to no adverse inputs 
against the said foreign national. 
 
(c) Visa of dependents of foreign nationals coming on Employment, Business, Student, 
Research Visa etc. can be  converted into Student/Research Visa within the country by 
the FRRO/ FRO concerned provided such dependents fulfill  the conditions laid down for 
the grant of Student/Research Visa. 
 
(d) ‘X’ (Entry) Visa of a foreigner who has been studying on Entry Visa can be converted to 
Student Visa by the FRRO/ FRO concerned on attaining the age of 16 years or after 12 th 
Standard subject to fulfillment of the conditions for grant of Student Visa. 
 
(e) ‘X’ (Entry) Visa of foreigners born to Indian nationals may be converted to Student Visa 
by the FRRO/ FRO concerned subject to verification of the PIO status. 
 
(f) Regarding conversion of Student/ Research  Visa to other categories of visa, please see 
the general policy guidelines relating to Indian visa on this website.   
 
X    
INTERN VISA 
 
67 
Eligibility  
 
 Intern [‘I’] Visa is granted to a foreigner intending to pursue internship in Indian companies, 
Educational Institutions and NGOs subject to the following conditions:- 
 
(1) The period of visa s hall be restricted to the duration of the internship programme or one 
year, whichever is less. 
 
(2) Intern visa will be granted to a maximum of 50 interns per year for  each Indian Mission/ 
Post.  This limit will be 100 per year for countries where the PIO (Person of Indian 
Origin) population is more than 1 million.   
 
(3) The intern visa will be granted immediately after completion of graduation/ post 
graduation but the gap between the completion of graduation/ post graduation and the 
commencement of the internship should not be more than two years. 
 
25 
 
(4) Visa should be granted only on the basis of a letter from the Indian company/ educational 
institution/ NGO concerned sponsoring the foreign national for the internship programme 
and clearly indicating the period of internship. 
 
(5) In case the internship is in a Company, the foreign national being sponsored for 
internship should draw a minimum remuneration of Rs. 7.80 lakhs per annum.  There will 
be no minimum salary limit in the case of internship in Educational institutions and 
NGOs.  
 
(6) Intern visa will not be issued for internship in certain vital sectors like Defence, Telecom, 
Space Technologies, Construction/ strategic In frastructure projects, Mining, Civil 
Aviation, Petroleum & Natural Gas exploration, Private security agencies, Human Rights, 
Nuclear Energy, Environmental issues and Dams.  
 
(7) Foreign nationals granted visa for doing internship will have to register themselv es with 
the FRRO / FRO concerned within 14 days of arrival in India if continuous stay is for 
more than 180 days.  
 
(8) No Intern visa shall be granted to a national of Pakistan. 
 
(9) The foreign national will have to exit the country before the expiry of the visa . An 
undertaking should be obtained from the company/ organization concerned that they will 
ensure departure of the foreigner on completion of the internship. 
 
(10) Under no circumstances, the foreign national will be allowed to take up employment in 
India immediately after completion of the internship programme.    
 
(11) Earnings from internship of the foreign nationals with Indian companies/ Educational 
Institutions/ NGOs will be subject to the Indian Income Tax Regulations. 
 
68 Intern visa to foreign nationals sponsored by AIESEC 
 
 Grant of visa to interns sponsored by Association Internationale des Etudiants en Sciences 
Economiques et Commerciales (AIESEC) for social or community work in NGOs and for project 
based work in companies/ industries will also be gove rned by the above guidelines.  In case a 
foreign national is in India on a Student visa and after completion of graduation/ post graduation, 
the foreign national is offered internship on the sponsorship of AIESEC,   FRRO/ FRO concerned 
may convert the Student Visa to Intern Visa subject to fulfillment of the conditions mentioned  
above. 
 
69 Visa for interns under the French International Internship Programme (VIE) 
 
A foreigner visiting India under the French International Internship Programme (VIE) may be 
granted Intern Visa subject to the following conditions-  
 
(i)  The Intern visa for such interns would be granted for fresh graduates within one year of 
graduation. 
 
(ii)  The Intern visa issued for such interns shall be valid for a maximum period of 12 months, 
and be renewable once for a further maximum period of 12 months. 
 
(iii)  The Intern Visa would be issued to a maximum number of 250 interns per year 
 
(iv)  The consolidated salary/ stipend of the interns being sponsored for the Intern visa should 
not be less than Rs.7.80 lakhs per annum ( US$ 12,000 per annum). 
26 
 
 
(v)  The Intern Visa and its extension will be specific to the VIE scheme under which the 
intern is sent to India.  The French Government agency in charge of the VIE scheme will 
apply for the visas, specifying the name of the intern, the hosting organization in India , 
and the exact period of stay. 
 
(vi)  The interns shall observe all registration formalities as per rules after their arrival in India. 
 
70 Foreign nationals intending to work in Indian Media organizations or foreign Media organizations 
in India as interns, may also be issued “Intern Visa” under delegated powers of the Missions 
subject to the conditions mentioned  in para 67 above.  
 
XI     ENTRY (‘X’) VISA 
  
71 Eligibility 
 
 An Entry (‘X’) Visa  may be granted to a foreigner in the following cases :-   
 
(1)   A Person of Indian Origin, who do not possess an OCI card, and may be granted ‘X-1’ 
Visa for a period of five years at a time, with multiple entry facility.   
 
(2) Spouse and children of an Indian citizen/ Person of Indian Origin/ OCI cardholder (other 
than those who are registered as OCI cardholder) may be granted ‘X-2’ visa  for a period 
of five years at a time, with multiple entry facility.    
  Note 
 
 (i) After completion of 5 years from the date of issue of X -1/ X-2 visa , if further 
extension is required, the proposal shall be referred  by FRRO/ FRO concerned to 
the Ministry of Home Affairs for clearance.  MHA would grant extension for one 
year after the expiry of the initial pe riod of five years. Subsequent extensions, if 
any, up to a total perio d of another 5 years at a time may be g ranted by  FRROs 
/FROs concerned.  The same procedure will be adopted if further extension is 
required.   
 
 (ii) A “Person of  Indian Origin ”  means - (a)  a person who at any time held an 
Indian passport; or (b)  a person who or either of his / her parents or grand 
parents or great grand parents, was born in , and was permanently resident in 
India, provided neither was at any time a citizen of  Afghanistan, Bangladesh, 
China, Pakistan or Sri Lanka or any other country that may be specified by the 
Government of India from time to time. 
 
 (3) Foreign nationals coming to join Auroville Foundation shall be issued X-3 visa under one 
of the following three categories: 
 
 (i)  Long duration Visa  :   X-3 visa  will be granted  for five years  with three 
entries in a year subject to the conditio n that the visa application is accompanied 
by a recommendation from the Secretary, Auroville Foundation.  FRRO,  
Chennai is authorized to grant additional two entries in a calendar year (over and 
above the 3 entries permitted) under emergent conditions if there are reasonable 
grounds for the same, on case to case basis, on a specific recommendation from 
the Secretary, Auroville Foundation. 
 
 In cases where Secretary, Auroville Foundation has recommended a visa for 5 
years but the Mission/ Post concerned has granted a visa for a period o f less than 
27 
 
5 years, FRRO Chennai is authorized to extend the visa for a period of 5 years 
from the date of issue of initial visa on a specific recommendation from the 
Secretary, Auroville Foundation. 
 
 (ii)  Short  duration  Visa : Foreign  nationals cover ed under any one of the 
following categories will be entitled for One year “X -3” visa  with three entries 
in a year  -  (a) Foreign nationals coming to join Auroville as interns, who are 
sponsored by schools /colleges / institutions / universities to carry out some 
study/project as part of their study curriculum; OR  (b) recommended by the 
Secretary, Auroville Foundation to visit as Consultants or  to provide assistance 
to some Civic Amenities/infrastructure project or commercial/production units 
run by Auroville Foundation; OR,  (c)  recommended by the Secretary, Auroville 
Foundation on probation for a certain duration to qualify for a long-term visa. 
 
Cases for grant of extension of long duration visa and short duration visa  would 
be reviewed by the Secretary, Auroville Foundation and FRRO, Chennai. 
 
 (iii)  Short duration visa for volunteers   :   For volunteers coming to Auroville 
Foundation to conduct a course or impart a training, participate in courses given 
at Auroville Institutions and to volunteer at institutions and work areas of the 
Auroville Foundation, if it is done without any monetary consideration, single 
entry, non-extendable, X-3 visa for a period of 3 months may be granted on a 
specific recommendation of the Secretary, Auroville Foundation. 
 
 (4) Foreign nationals coming to join Sri Aurobindo Ashram, Puducherry , may be granted X -
3 Visa for a period of one year with multiple entry facility. This visa may be extended on 
year to year basis by FRRO, Chennai on the recommendation of Sri Aurobindo Ashram 
for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of issue of visa.   
 
 (5) Foreign nationals coming to join the Missionaries of Charity, Kolkata may be gr anted 
multiple entry  ‘ X-3’ Visa for appropriate duration subject to pro duction of a letter of 
recommendation from the Missionaries of Charity, Kolkata.  The  ‘ X-3’ visa  may be 
renewed by the FRRO concerned up to a maximum period of 5 years from the date of 
issue of initial visa.  Further renewal beyond 5 years will be granted only with the prior 
approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
 
(6) Foreign nationals coming to join temples for true and spiritual training may be granted   
multiple entry ‘X-3’ Visa for appropriate duration on production of a letter of 
recommendation from the Temple authorities concerned.  The  ‘X-3’ visa of such genuine 
spiritualists may be renewed by the FRRO concerned up to a maximum period of 5 years 
from the date of issue of init ial visa based on the recommendation of the Temple 
authorities concerned.   Further renewal beyond 5 years may be granted only with the 
prior approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
 
 (7) Foreign Buddhist monks coming to India for joining the Buddhist Monasteries/ other 
Buddhist organizations for charity work, may be granted multiple entry  ‘X-3’ Visa for a 
period of one year subject to the condition that he/she is duly sponsored by the Buddhist 
Monastery/ Buddhist organizati on that he/she proposes to join. One year ‘X-3’ visa in 
such cases can be further extended on a year to year basis for a maximum period of up to 
five years from the date of issue of the initial visa by the FRRO/FRO concerned .  Such 
Buddhist Monks will be required to register themselves with the FRRO/ FRO concerned 
within 14 days of arrival,   irrespective of their visa validity.   
 
28 
 
 
 (8) Foreign nationals who own property in India may be granted multiple entry ‘ X-4’ Visa 
for a period of one year .  The foreign national must submit documentary proof of 
permission of the Reserve Bank of India for the purchase of / holding the property in 
India and the document should show  registration of the particular property with the 
registration authority concerned.  The one year multi entry ‘X-4’ visa can be extended by 
the FRRO/FRO concerned on yearly basis up to a maximum period of 5 years from the 
date of initial visa. 
 
 (9) Diplomats/ Officials on a personal (Non-official) visit to India may be granted ‘X-5’ Visa 
for appropriate duration taking into account the purpose of visit.  
 
 (10) Ordinary passport holding dependents of diplomats/ officials assigned to India (including 
in the UN and Non- UN International Organizations) may be granted ‘ X-5D’ Visa for 
appropriate duration.  
 
 (11) Participants in international Sports events and the officials (including coach)  of the 
Sports teams (other than those who are engaged in commercial sports events in India on 
contract like Indian Premier League, Indian Soccer League, Indian Badminton League 
etc. with remuneration)   may be granted ‘X-SP’ Visa of appropriate duration .   
 
 (12) Foreign nationals applying for visa for a purpose, which is not specifically covered under 
any visa category, may be grant ed ‘X-Misc’ Visa for appropriate duration.  Such a Visa 
may be granted only with single entry and for the specific duration taking into account 
the purpose of visit.  If the visa is granted for a period of stay exceeding 180 days, the 
foreigner will have to register himself/ herself with the FRRO/ FRO concerned within 14 
days of arrival.   This visa will be non -extendable and non-convertible to any other type 
of visa.    
 
XII     CONFERENCE VISA 
 
72  Eligibility 
 
 A Conference visa is granted to a foreigner whose sole objective of visiting India is to at tend a 
conference / seminar or workshop being held in India.  Conference visa may be granted for 
international conferences held to discuss a particular subject or for a seminar or workshop on a 
specific subject.   For Business meetings, to discuss business matters of a particular company/ 
organization and Board meetings, a foreigner may obtain either a Business Visa or e- Business 
Visa.
  Conference Visa shall not be issued for events  which involve politically and/ or socially 
sensitive subjects. 
 
73 Procedure for prior clearance for holding an international conference / seminar / workshop 
(event clearance): 
 
  (i) Prior clearance of the Ministry of Home Affairs for holding an event (i.e. international 
conference/ seminar/ workshop) will be required only in following cases:- 
 
(a)  If there are p articipants from Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Sudan, foreigners of 
Pakistani origin and Stateless persons; and  
 
(b)  If the participants are  required to  visit  'Restricted'  or 'Protected' areas in India,  
Jammu & Kashmir and the North Eastern States (other than the States of 
Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland).   
 
29 
 
 (ii) If an event, which from the stand point of parameters mentioned above,  is being 
organized in India by a Ministry or Department of the Government of India, State 
Governments or UT Administrations, Public Sector Undertakings, Central Educational 
Institutions, Public Funded Universities or an organization owned and controlled by the 
Government of India or any State Government / UT, United Nations or its Specialized 
Agencies, the organizer concerned shall forward the proposal with complete details to the 
Ministry of Home Affairs at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the event .  In 
respect of participants from countries mentioned above,   details in the following format 
should be sent to MHA at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the event: 
 
 
(iii) If an event, which from the stand point of parameters mentioned above is being organized 
in India by a private organizer - be it an NGO or a private institution -, the organizer 
concerned shall forward the proposal with complete details to the Ministry of Home 
Affairs (Foreigners Division) within 60 days prior to the commencement of the event  
with complete details of the participants from the  above mentioned  countries in the  
format given in  sub-para (ii) above.    
 
(iv)  Participants from the  countries specified above are required to apply for visa at the  
Indian Mission concerned ‘on line’.  
 
(v)  All such proposals requiring clearance in terms of the above mentioned paras should be 
addressed to the Section Officer ( CC), Ministry of Home Affairs (Foreigners Division ),  
Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, India Gate,  New Delhi-110002. 
 
(vi)    When the event is cleared, the Ministry of Home Affairs will inform the Missions 
concerned accordingly and will authorize the grant of visa in respect of specific 
individuals.   
 
74 Duration of visa 
 
Delegates (other than Pakistani nationals) coming  to attend conference etc. in India  can combine 
tourism with attending the conference.  Indian Missions may at their discretion grant visas for the 
required period.  
 
75 A foreign national intending to attend an Inte rnational  Conference/ seminar/ workshop while 
already in India on Business/ Employment / Student/ Research visa may seek prior permission of 
the FRRO/ FRO concerned by making a suitable application along with all relevant details.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sl. 
No 
Name of  
appli-
cant 
Father’s 
/ 
Husb-
and’s 
Name 
Natio-
nality 
Date 
of 
Birth 
Place 
of 
Birth 
Pass- 
port 
Number 
Date  
& 
Place of 
Issue 
Date of 
Expiry 
Address 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 
          
30 
 
XIII     SPORTS VISA 
 
76  Procedure for grant of clearance 
 
 Grant of visa to members of sports teams shall be regulated by the following provisions: 
 
(i) Invitation to foreign sports teams and sports persons to visit India may be 
extended by the concerned Sports Federation / Association in India only after 
obtaining approval of the Government of India in the Ministry  of Youth Affairs 
and Sports (Department of Sports).  
 
(ii) The organizer shall submit the proposal for holding the international sports event 
to the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports for prior clearance.   
 
(iii) In respect of f ollowing categories of international sports events, Ministry of 
Youth Affairs & Sports (Department of Sports) will refer the proposals with their 
recommendations to the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of External 
Affairs for prior clearance  at least 30 days prior to the commencement of the 
event -   
 
(a)  Events involving participants from the Prior Reference Category (PRC) 
countries i.e. Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq, Sudan, foreigners of Pakista ni 
origin and Stateless persons 
 
(b)  Events where participants are  required to  visit  'Restricted' or 'Protected' 
areas in India, Jammu & Kashmir and the North Eastern States (other 
than the States of Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland).   
 
 In such cases,  the Indian Missions/ Posts shall issue visa to the participants only 
on production of - (i) requisite clearance from the Ministry of Youth Affairs & 
Sports, (ii) clearance for holding the event from the Ministry of Home Affairs 
and (iii) political c learance for holding the event from the Ministry of External 
Affairs. 
 
(iv)     Participants from the countries specified above are required to apply for visa at 
the Indian Mission/ Post concerned ‘on line’. 
 
(v)  Sports teams and sports persons shall be granted  “X -SP” Visa for appropriate 
duration. 
 
 Note :  Foreign nationals who are taken on contract to play in commercial sports 
events in India  with remuneration will be granted a Business Visa (B -Sports) 
with multiple entry facility for appropriate period.   
 
77 Meeting of Sports Bodies 
 
 Members of the delegations of the foreign countries attending meetings  of sports bodies like the 
International Olympic Association, etc.  will be granted “Conference Visa” of appropriate sub-
category. 
 
 
 
 
 
31 
 
XIV MOUNTAINEERING  VISA 
 
 
78 Procedure for grant of clearance  
 
(1)  All requests for Mountaineering expeditions should be addressed to the Indian 
Mountaineering Foundation (IMF)   at least four months in advance along with full 
details.   A copy of the requests will also be sent to the Ministry of Home Affairs.   
 
(2)  In order to assist in making local arrangements etc., a liaison officer will be assigned to 
each expedition (at its cost) by the Indian Mountaineering Foundation.  No expedition 
will be allowed without a liaison officer. 
 
(3)  Mountaineering expeditions will not be permitted if the peak to be climbed and/or the 
approach area lies within the restricted/protected areas, without obtaining the necessary 
prior permission from the authorities concerned.  
 
(4)  For Mountaineering expeditions, the Missions may grant Mountaineering (‘MX’) visa for 
appropriate period.  
 
79 Peaks opened for mountaineering expeditions 
 
(a) List of 104 peaks opened for mountaineering expeditions in Jammu & Kashmir (Leh 
area) is at Appendix VIII. 
 
(5) Prior permission of the Central Government is not  required by a foreigner or group of 
foreigners for climbing 113 Mountaineering and Trekking Peaks  as in  Appendix IX.   
However, prior permission of the Central Government will be required if the expedition 
team includes nationals of China, Pakistan, Afgha nistan and Bangladesh.  This is subject 
to Indian Mountaineering Foundation specifying the routes, attaching a liaison officer and 
imposing such restrictions as it may deem necessary.  
 
 
XVI 
JOURNALIST VISA 
80     Eligibility 
 
A journalist Visa  is granted to:- 
 
(i) A foreigner who is a professional journalist, photographer, documentary film producer or 
director (other than of commercial films), a representative of a radio and/or television 
organization, travel writer/ travel promotion photographer etc.   
 
(ii) A professional journalist working for an association or a company engaged in the 
production or broadcast of audio news or audio visual news or current affairs programmes 
through the print media, electronic or any other form
 as defined  in clause (R) of sub -
section (1) of section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 or any other mode of 
mass communication.   
 
(iii) A correspondent /columnist/cartoonist/editor/ owner of the association or company referred 
to above.  
 
(iv) A Journalist visiting India for any other purpose, such as attending a Conference, tourism, 
meeting relatives etc.  
 
 
32 
 
81       Validity and General conditions 
 
Journalist visa of appropriate sub-category may be granted for upto three months stay in India.    A 
six months Journalist  visa, with a single or double entry, may be given, in rare and exceptional 
cases.    Multiple entry visas may be issued only with the prior approval of the Ministry of External 
Affairs. 
 
Family members accompanying the cor respondent may be given  appropriate dependent visa co -
terminus with the validity of Visa granted to the correspondent.  
 
On arrival in New Delhi, the  applicant is advised to contact the External Publicity Division of the 
Ministry of External Affairs .  In other places, he/she may contact  the office of the Government of 
India’s Press Information Bureau. 
  
82     Procedure for grant of permission to visit Restricted and Protected Areas, Jammu & 
Kashmir and the North Eastern States on Journalist Visa 
 
(i)  A foreign journalist, TV cameraperson etc, including a foreign journalist already based in 
India, who desires to visit a restricted or protected area or Jammu & Kashmir or the North 
Eastern States, should apply  for a special permit  through the Ministry of External Affairs 
(External Publicity Division).   
 
(ii)  If any such request is received directly by a State Government, or any other authority 
empowered to issue a special permit, the application shall be referred to the Ministry of 
External Affairs (External Publicity Division) with a copy to the Ministry of Home Affairs.  
 
(iii)  A foreign journalist coming to India on a short -term visit and desiring to go to a 
restricted/protected area or Jammu & Kashmir or  the North Eastern Sta tes is advised to 
apply for a permit in the prescribed form through an Indian Mission.    
 
83  Procedure regarding the shooting of a documentary film/advertisement film in India by a 
foreigner 
 
Proposals regarding the shooting of a documentary film/advertisement film will  be processed in 
the Ministry of External Affairs  (External Publicity Division). 
 
Documentaries that do not deal with sensitive subjects/ locations will be cleared by the External 
Publicity Division of the Ministry of External Affairs.  Indian Missions will issue Journalist visas 
to the crew after obtaining clearance from MEA .  MEA’s permission is a clearance for a 
documentary from the perspective of the  external publicity Division only. Local clearances, 
wherever necessary, such as from ASI, municipal authorities etc. as per their policy/practice on 
such filming/ photography,  must to be obtained by the producers directly from the authorities 
concerned.  
 
Prior approval of Ministry of Home Affairs  is required to be obtained in cases where filming is to 
be carried out in areas requiring Restricted Area/ Protected Area Permit  or other restricted areas, 
such as border districts, defence installations and other areas of strategic importance, national parks 
and wildlife sanctuaries.  
 
Prior clearance of Ministry of Home Affairs , line Ministries/Departments and the State 
Governments/ UTs concerned will have to be obtained when the proposed documentary deals with  
sensitive issues.  In such cases, the Ministry of External Affairs will process the cases for clearance 
from the Departments / Ministries concerned.  Indian Missions shall  ensure that visas for such 
proposals are issued only after obtaining final clearance from the MEA.  
33 
 
84     Foreign media men assigned to India 
 
Indian Missions/ Posts are authorized to issue Journalist Visa for an initial stay of three months 
with Triple entry to  correspondents of foreign newspapers, news agencies, media etc. coming to 
India as resident representatives of their newspapers, TV organizations etc., and who will be 
applying for accreditation to the Press Information Bureau in New Delhi.  
   
Family members accompanying the correspondent will  be given appropriate  dependent visa co -
terminus with the duration of the visa granted to the correspondent.  
 
 
XVI    FILM VISA 
 
85      Procedure for processing of proposals for shooting of a feature film/ reality TV show and/ 
or commercial TV serials  
 
(1) All such proposals will be processed in the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. 
 
(2) The film has to be shot according to the script, as approved by the Government of India.    
Ministry of Information and Broadcasting will attach a liaison officer to the foreign team  
wherever it is felt necessary to do so by the Script Evaluator.  
 
(3) The foreign team must show the complete film to a representative of the Government of 
India, in India or abroad (i.e. an Indian Mission abroad), before its actual release 
anywhere in the world.  No portion of the film should be shown in the open forum 
without prior approval of the Government of India. 
 
(4) Prior clearance of the Ministry of Home Affairs for shooting of feature films/ TV reality 
shows/ serials will be necessary only in respect of cases where shooting is to be done in 
Jammu & Kashmir, North East, Border areas and areas declared as restricted/ protected/ 
prohibited areas and/ or cases involving sensitive subjects.   I n other cases, the Ministry 
of I & B will examine the proposal and communicate their clearance to the Indian 
Missions/ Posts concerned for grant of visa to the foreigners involved.  Local permission, 
wherever required, must be obtained by the filming team from the local authorities.  The 
list of equipments to be temporarily imported in connection with the shooting is required 
to be submitted to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, in advance.  
 
In case the programme in question has a bearing on India’s relations with a foreign 
country or has a foreign policy perspective, views of MEA (XP Division) must be sought.   
 
86      Grant of  Film (‘F’) Visa   
  
 
(i) Foreign nationals  who are coming to shoot a feature film/ reality TV show and/ or 
commercial TV serials in India will be granted  Film Visa provided the Ministry of 
Information and Broadcasting has approved the proposal .  The visa would be film 
specific. 
 
(ii) The maximum duration of the Visa will be for one year with multiple entry facility . An 
extension can be granted by FRRO/ FRO concerned for  a maximum period of 1 year.    
Application to extend the period of filming must be submitted not later than thirty days 
before expiry date of fully approved shooting period.  
 
34 
 
(iii) The maximum number of crew for a specific film being shot by an internati onal 
production company that can be allowed under this visa regime will be 125, unless the 
project is of such scale that it necessitates the presence of a larger international crew in 
India which will be allowed on case to case basis.   
 
(iv) The foreigners coming on Film Visa will have to register himself/ herself with the FRRO/ 
FRO concerned irrespective of the duration of the  Visa/ stay of the foreigner in India. 
 
 
XVII     MISSIONARY VISA 
 
 
87       Eligibility 
 
A  Missionary visa is granted to a foreigner  whose sole objective of visiting India is Missionary 
work not involving proselytization.  Visa   shall   NOT be granted to   preachers   and evangelists 
who desire to come to India on propaganda campaigns, whether on their own or at the invitation 
of any organization in India.  
 
88   General principles/conditions 
 
Foreign missionaries coming to India for the  first time in replacement ( not augmentation) will be 
admitted only  if they   possess  outstanding  qualifications  or   specialized experience   in  their  
line,  and  no  suitable  Indian   is available for the job.  Applications from foreign missionaries 
coming  to work  in  new foreign missionary centres will  be  considered only  if the society 
concerned has obtained  permission  from the Government of India for opening the centre. A list 
of recognized foreign   missionary  societies  in  India  is  given  in Appendix  X.   No new 
society will ordinarily be recognized.   Applications for  visas  from  members  of  recognized 
societies should be accompanied by a sponsorship letter  from a  responsible  official of the 
society.   The applicant   should   also be r equired to cite in the application, the names of two 
responsible persons in India ( preferably in the State/ UT in which the applicant proposes to 
work) who will furnish a guarantee bond to the Government for his/her maintenance in, and 
repatriation from,  India.   
 
89       Procedure for making visa application 
 
Visa application in respect of foreign missionaries can be made to -  (a) the Indian Mission/ Post 
concerned abroad;  (b)  the State Government/ UT concerned and  (c) the  Ministry of Home 
Affairs with  a  copy to the State Government/ UT concerned .   
 
90 Validity of Visa 
 
 The Indian Missions/ Posts may grant a Missionary (M) Visa to a foreigner for a maximum 
period of one year with multiple entry facility.  This visa may be extended by FRRO/ FRO 
concerned on year to year basis for a maximum period of 5 years from the date of issue of initial 
visa, with the prior approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs. 
 
91 Inspection visits 
 
Bishops,  Superiors, etc. of foreign  missionary   organizations   who desire to visit or  inspect  the 
working  of their institutions in India  and any personal assistant  or secretary  accompanying 
them will be granted ‘Entry’ (X-Misc) Visa  valid  for s tay  up to three months in India .   If, 
however, a visit to any place in the  restricted/ protected  area is involved, separate applications  
to  visit such  places  shall be submitted  in the prescribed  form  and such applications shall be 
35 
 
referred to the  Ministry of Home Affairs at least two  months in advance of the date of the 
proposed visit.   
 
XVIII.  OTHER CATEGORIES 
 
92  Citizens of Maldives   
 
A citizen of Maldives visiting India for a short period, upto 90 days, is exempt from the 
requirement of visa, provided he/she holds a valid passport .   The period of 90 days shall include 
any prior period of stay of such foreigner in India during a period of six months immediately 
preceding the date of his/her entry into India.  This visa free entry will be available only for 
Tourism and Medical purposes.   
 
93     Stateless persons  
 
Single  entry  visa, not exceeding one month, may be granted  by the Indian Missions/ Posts to a 
stateless person  (other than Afghan, Chinese including Taiwanese, Iranian, Pakistani or Somalian 
origin).   In respect of persons of Afghan, Chinese including Taiwanese, Iranian, Pakistani or 
Somalian origin, prior clearance of the Ministry of Home Affairs will be required. 
 
94 Facility of Collective Landing permits for group tourists 
 
 Foreign tourists in groups of four or more, arriving by air or sea, sponsored by Indian Travel 
Agencies approved by the Ministry of Tourism, Government of India and with a pre -drawn 
itinerary may be granted collective landing permit for a period no t exceeding 60 days, with 
multiple-entry facility to enable them to visit a neighbouring country. In order to avail of this 
facility, the tourist or travel agency concerned shall mandatorily fill in the applications online on 
website www.indianvisaonline.gov.in
.  A complete list of group members along with printed visa 
applications and their itinerary should be submitted by the tourist or travel agency to the FRRO/ 
FRO concerned, 72 hours in advance.    
 
 The facility of Collective Landing Permits for Group Tourists will be presently available only at 
the following Airports and Seaports:- 
 
Airports – Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Kochi, 
Thiruvananthapuram and Goa. 
 
Seaports -  Marmagoa Seaport (Goa), Kochi Seaport, Calicut Seaport, Thiruvananthapuram 
Seaport, Mumbai Seaport, Nhava Sheva Seaport, Chennai Seaport and Kolkata Seaport. 
 
The facility of Collective Landing Permits shall, however, not be available to the nationals of 
Afghanistan, China, Ethiopia, Iraq,  Nigeria, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and foreign nationals 
of Pakistani origin. 
 
Passengers on cruise ships may be granted a collective landing permit.  However, in case a cruise 
ship visits more than one port in India, and does not visit ports of any other country, a collective 
landing permit will be issued at the first port of entry into India. There will be no need to issue a 
collective landing permit at each port of visit included in the itinerary. 
 
 
95 Police Clearance Certificate 
 
 A foreigner staying abroad may apply for Police clearance certificate to the Indian Mission/ Post 
concerned indicating the purpose for which such Police Clearance Certificate is required.    
36 
 
Foreigners residing in India shall apply for such certificate to the concerned FRRO/FRO as per 
their place of residence.  
 
96 Grant/Extension of Stay Visa/ Residential Permit of Afghanistan nationals staying in India 
due to disturbed conditions in that country 
 
 Grant of Stay Visa/ Residential Permit 
 
 Stay Visa/ Residential Permit for one year at a time may be granted by FRRO/ FRO concerned to 
such Afghanistan nationals on a case to case basis with  prior approval of the Ministry of Home 
Affairs.  Afghanistan nationals requesting for 'Stay Visa/ Residential Permit' shall apply online on 
the C-FRO Module. For this purpose, please visit https://indianfrro.gov.in  
  
 Economic immigrants i.e. who have arrived in India in search of economic opportunities, without 
any fear of persecution, WILL NOT be eligible for Stay Visa/ Residential Permit.   
 
 Stay Visa/ Residential Permit granted to Afghan nationals will be State/UT specific and their 
movement will be restricted to the State/UT where they are permitted to stay.  For visiting any 
place in any other State/UT , such Afghan nationals will have to seek prior permission of the 
FRRO/FRO concerned. 
 
 Grant of  Stay Visa/Reside ntial Permit  is subject to Police Reporting every year at the place 
where the Afghan national is allowed to stay.  
 
 Extension of Stay Visa/ Residential Permit 
 
 Extension of Stay Visa/ Residential Permit, if justified, may be granted by FRRO/ FRO 
concerned for one year at a time with prior approval of the Ministry of Home Affairs.  
Applications for extension of Stay Visa/ Residential Permit will be submitted online by the 
applicant to the FRRO/ FRO concerned in C -FRO module online. For this purpose, please 
visit https://indianfrro.gov.in  
  
General Provisions 
 
 All provisions relating to registration/ exit permission applicable to foreign nationals and 
instructions issued in this regard from time to time, shall be applicable to Afghanistan nationals as 
well.   Phone  numbers of all Afghan nationals on Stay Visa/ Residential Permit should be 
reported to the FRRO/FRO concerned and any change should be informed to the FRRO/FRO 
concerned without delay. 
 
 No exit fee/overstay fee to be charged from these Afghan nationals when they are leaving the 
country permanently.  In all such cases, biometric enrolment and photograph shall be taken by 
FRRO/FRO concerned before granting exit permission. 
 
 
XIX FOREIGNERS OF INDIAN ORIGIN 
 
97 Regularization of stay of foreign nationals married to Indian nationals 
 
FRROs/ FROs are delegated powers to regularize the stay of foreigners who had entered India on 
Tourist Visa and have been staying in India for many years due to marriage to Indian nationals, 
convert their visas to Entry (X-2) visa and grant further extension of visa on case to case basis.  
 
 
37 
 
 
98    Cases of foreigners married to Indian nationals and having X visa, whose Indian spouse has 
expired or the person has gone for divorce 
 
(a)  In case of death of Indian spouse :   
 
 (i)   If the couple had a child and the foreign national has not re -married another 
foreigner/ Indian national, he/she may be allowed extension of stay on X -2 visa 
by FRRO/ FRO concerned subject to usual checks and no local objection.   
 
 (ii)  If the foreigner is a childless widow/ widower,  the existing  X -2 visa will be 
cancelled and he/ she will be granted exit. 
 
 (iii)  If the foreign national is remarried to another foreign national, no extension of 
visa will be allowed and he/she will be granted exit. 
 
 (iv)  In case the foreigner has remarried an Indian national, the existing X -2 visa will  
be cancelled and  the foreigner will be granted exit advising him/ her to come 
back on a new X-2 Visa.  
 
  (b) In case of divorce :   
 
  (i) If the couple had a child whose custody has been given to the foreigner by a court 
and the foreigner has not re -married another foreigner/ Indian national , he/she 
may be allowed extension of stay on X -2 visa by FRRO/ FRO concerned subject 
to usual checks and no local objection.   
 
 (ii)   If the couple has no child,  the existing X-2 visa of the foreigner will be cancelled 
and he/ she will be granted exit. 
 
  (iii)  If the foreign national is remarrie d to another foreign national, no extension of 
visa will be allowed and he/she will be granted exit. 
 
 (iv)  In case the foreigner has remarried an Indian national, the existing X -2 visa 
would  be cancelled and  the foreigner would be granted exit advising him/ her to 
come back on a new X-2  Visa.  
 
 
XXI       LANDING PERMIT 
 
99    A landing permit facility, up to a maximum of three days, can be given to a foreigner –  
 
 (i)  who enters India by air or sea, without a valid visa , under emergent circumstances (like 
death or sudden illness in family);   
 
 (ii)  who has arrived in India by air or sea and desires to leave –  
 
  (a) the specified precincts of the airport,  or 
 
   (b)  the ship during its halt at an Indian port;  
 
  (iii) who has arrived by air and desires to resume his/her journey by the next regularly 
scheduled flight;   
 
38 
 
 (iv)  who has arrived by sea and intends to resume his/ her journey from the same place by a 
scheduled air service for which he/she holds a valid ticket ( in such cases, the for eigner 
will be allowed to leave the ship to proceed to the designated airport to catch his/ her 
flight on a  landing permit). 
  
 Note:  
 
 (1) Seamen and crew of the ship may be allowed temporary landing permit into India for a 
period of up to 15 days, during the stay of the ship at an Indian port for purpose of 
loading/ unloading, fuelling/refuelling, repairs to the ship, or on other reasonable 
ground. 
 
 (2) No landing permit facility  shall be granted to a national of Afghanistan, China, Ethiopia, 
Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan, Somalia & Sri Lanka and foreign nationals of Pakistan origin 
even if he/she is transiting through India and has a confirmed onward journey ticket.   
 
100      Validity  
 
A landing permit w (a) ill be valid for a single journey and for a period of stay not exceeding 3 
days. This permit is not extendable except in case of extreme emergency like strike, traffic 
disruption, inclement weather, illness, etc. and will be restricted to the exact period for which the 
exigency obtains. Extensions of this nature shall be disposed of at the level of FRRO/FRO 
concerned.  
 
 
101 Grant of TLP to crew of non-scheduled airlines, chartered flights operated by such airlines 
and Special flights 
 
 Immigration Authorities may grant Temporary Landing Permits for crew of non- scheduled 
airlines, chartered flights operated by such airlines and Special flights, as indicated below:-   
 
(A) In respect of the following categories of crew of non -scheduled airlines, chartered 
flights operated by such airlines and Special flights, the Immigration Authorities may 
grant Temporary Landing Permits (TLPs) subject to usual checks:- 
 
(a) Medical Emergency, (b) Technical problems in the aircraft and Technical landing 
for refueling / for crew rest, (c) Diversion of the aircraft to an Indian airport due to bad 
weather conditions in the nearby foreign airport and  (d)  Relief flights including  
flights operated under UN Mission 
 
(B)  In respect of the following categories, TLP may be granted by the Immigration 
authorities for the crew [except in case of nationals of countries mentioned in note (2) 
below para 99], subject to usual checks and  DGCA intimating flight clearance:- 
 
(a) VIP flights ,  (b) Cargo flights  and (c) Private Aircrafts of leading businessmen 
coming for business purpose. 
 
(C)    In respect of crew of  tourist charter flights  [except in case of nationals of countries 
mentioned in note (2) below para 99], TLP may be granted subject to usual checks and 
further subject to the following conditions:- 
 
(a) The tourist or travel agency sponsoring the tourists shall mandatorily fill in the 
visa applications for the crew members of the cha rter flights online   and (b) A 
complete list of crew members along with printed visa applications and their itinerary 
39 
 
should be submitted by the tourist or travel agency to the FRRO/ FRO concerned, 72 
hours in advance.  
******   
Appendix I 
 
S. No. Country 
1.  Andorra 
2.  Angola 
3.  Anguilla 
4.  Antigua & Barbuda 
5.  Albania 
6.  Austria 
7.  Argentina 
8.  Armenia 
9.  Aruba 
10.  Australia 
11.  Azerbaijan 
12.  Bahamas 
13.  Barbados  
14.  Belgium 
15.  Belize 
16.  Bolivia 
17.  Bosnia & Herzegovina 
18.  Botswana 
19.  Brazil 
20.  Brunei 
21.  Bulgaria 
22.  Burundi 
23.  Cambodia 
24.  Cameron Union Republic 
25.  Canada 
26.  Cape Verde 
27.  Cayman Island 
28.  Chile 
29.  China 
30.  China- SAR Hongkong 
31.  China- SAR Macau 
32.  Colombia 
33.  Comoros 
34.  Cook Islands 
35.  Costa Rica 
36.  Cote d'lvoire 
37.  Croatia 
List of countries whose nationals are eligible for e- Visa facility 
40 
 
38.  Cuba 
39.  Cyprus 
40.  Czech Republic 
41.  Denmark 
42.  Djibouti 
43.  Dominica  
44.  Dominican Republic 
45.  East Timor 
46.  Ecuador 
47.  El Salvador 
48.  Estonia 
49.  Eritrea 
50.  Fiji 
51.  Finland 
52.  France 
53.  Gabon 
54.  Gambia 
55.  Georgia 
56.  Germany  
57.  Ghana 
58.  Greece 
59.  Grenada  
60.  Guatemala 
61.  Guinea 
62.  Guyana 
63.  Haiti 
64.  Honduras  
65.  Hungary 
66.  Iceland 
67.  Indonesia 
68.  Ireland 
69.  Israel 
70.  Italy 
71.  Jamaica 
72.  Japan 
73.  Jordan  
74.  Kenya  
75.  Kiribati 
76.  Laos 
77.  Latvia 
78.  Lesotho 
79.  Liberia 
80.  Liechtenstein 
81.  Lithuania 
82.  Luxembourg  
83.  Macedonia 
84.  Madagascar 
41 
 
85.  Malaysia  
86.  Malawi 
87.  Mali 
88.  Malta 
89.  Marshall Islands 
90.  Mauritius 
91.  Mexico 
92.  Micronesia 
93.  Moldova 
94.  Monaco 
95.  Mongolia 
96.  Montenegro 
97.  Montserrat 
98.  Mozambique 
99.  Myanmar 
100.  Namibia 
101.  Nauru 
102.  Netherlands 
103.  New Zealand 
104.  Nicaragua 
105.  Niger Republic 
106.  Niue Island 
107.  Norway 
108.  Oman 
109.  Palau 
110.  Palestine 
111.  Panama 
112.  Papua New Guinea 
113.  Paraguay 
114.  Peru 
115.  Philippines 
116.  Poland 
117.  Portugal 
118.  Republic of Korea 
119.  Romania 
120.  Russia 
121.  Rwanda 
122.  Saint Christopher and Nevis 
123.  Saint Lucia 
124.  Saint Vincent & the Grenadines 
125.  San Marino 
126.  Samoa 
127.  Senegal 
128.  Serbia 
129.  Seychelles 
130.  Sierra Leone 
131.  Singapore 
132.  Slovenia 
133.  Slovakia 
42 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
134.  Solomon Islands 
135.  South Africa 
136.  Spain 
137.  Sri Lanka 
138.  Suriname 
139.  Swaziland 
140.  Switzerland 
141.  Sweden 
142.  Taiwan  
143.  Tanzania 
144.  Tajikistan 
145.  Thailand 
146.  Tonga 
147.  Trinidad & Tobago 
148.  Turks & Caicos Island 
149.  Tuvalu 
150.  UAE 
151.  Ukraine 
152.  United Kingdom(UK) 
153.  United States of America (USA) 
154.  Uruguay 
155.  Uzbekistan 
156.  Vanuatu 
157.  Vatican City-Holy See 
158.              Venezuela 
159.              Vietnam 
160              Zambia 
161.              Zimbabwe 
162.              Uganda 
163               Kazakhstan 
43 
 
 
Appendix  II 
Visa Consular 
Indian Embassy 
(Address) 
 
Request for Medical Visa 
 
Dear Sir 
 
……… (Patient’s name) has been advised to undergo …….. (diagnosis) at   …… (Name of hospital and 
place) by our Sr. Consultant,……… ( Consultant’s name), Department of ….. (Speciality).  
 
The cost of treatment will be …….. ( cost ) and the duration of the treatment will be  ……… (duration).  
 
Passport details are given below for your kind reference. 
 
Name of the Patient ………. 
 
Passport number………….  
 
Name of the companion (Attendant)…………  
 
Passport number …………. 
 
We request you to kindly issue visa to him/ her and his/ her companion (attendant). 
 
Thanking you and looking forward to an early action from your side. 
 
Yours sincerely 
 
 
 
Authorized Signatory 
 
Telephone number : …………  
Fax number : ………………. 
Email: ………………..  
  
44 
 
Appendix  III 
 
To 
 
 FRRO/ FRO 
 (Address) 
 
 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 
 
 
This is to certify that …… (patient’s name),  ……… (age/ sex), ………. (Nationality), holding passport 
number ………  is admitted in Bed No.  …….. under my care for medical treatment at ………. (name of 
the hospital and place).   He is accompanied by ……….. (name of the companion/ attendant).  
 
They need to stay in …… (place) for another  ……..  (duration) to complete their medical treatment.  So 
kindly extend their visas for  ……..  (duration). 
 
This letter is issued for visa purpose only. 
 
Details of visas granted to the patient and attendant 
 
Details of visa Patient Attendant 
Visa Number   
Visa Type   
Valid till   
Date of issue   
Place of issue   
 
 
 
(Name of the Doctor) 
Sr. Consultant   Department ………..  
(Name of Hospital and Place) 
 
Telephone number : ………….  
Fax number : ………..  
Email : ……………  
 
  
45 
 
Appendix  IV 
To 
 
 FRRO/ FRO 
 (Address) 
 
 
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN 
 
 
This is to certify that …… (patient’s name),  ……… (age/ sex), ………. (Nationality), holding passport 
number ………  is admitted in Bed No.  …….. under my care for medical treatment at ………. (name of 
the hospital and place).   He is accompanied by ……….. (name of the companion/ attendant).  
 
Kindly do  their registration formalities. 
 
This letter is issued for visa purpose only. 
 
Details of the disease ………………   
 
Details of visas granted to the patient and attendant 
 
Details of visa Patient Attendant 
Visa Number   
Visa Type   
Valid till   
Date of issue   
Place of issue   
 
 
(Name of the Doctor) 
Sr. Consultant   Department ………..  
(Name of Hospital and Place) 
 
Telephone number : ………….  
Fax number : ………..  
Email : ……………   
46 
 
Appendix V 
Form  C 
ARRIVAL REPORT OF FOREIGNER IN HOTEL 
[To be completed in duplicate] 
1. Name and address of the Hotel      _______________________ 
or other premises, where                      
accommodation has been                   _______________________ 
provided for reward / on payment              
 
 
 
2. Phone/Mobile No. of the Hotel/Place of stay_________________ 
 
3. Name of Foreign Visitor in Full: (as given in passport) 
 
                
 
                
 
4. Date of Birth (DD/MM/YYYY)         
 
 
5. Address in country where residing permanently 
                
 
                
 
6. Address / Reference in India 
                
 
                
 
7. Nationality         8. Passport No.          
9. Place of issue 
of Passport 
        10. Date of 
issue of 
Passport 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
        
             
 
 
              
11. Valid till (DD/MM/YYYY)         
 
12. Visa No            13. Date of Issue 
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
        
 
14. Valid till  
(DD/MM/YYYY) 
        15. Type of Visa           
 
 
 PHOTOGRAPH* 
47 
 
 
16. Place of issue             
 
17. Arrived from             
 
18. Date of arrival in India (DD/MM/YYYY)         
 
19. Date of arrival in Hotel (DD/MM/YYYY)         
 
20. Time of arrival     
 
21. Intended duration of stay in Hotel (No. of days)    
 
22. Whether employed in India (tick √ in appropriate box)  Yes  No 
   
23.  Purpose of Visit (tick √  in appropriate box) 
 
              
             
Business  Transit  Official  Employment  Education  Conference  Visit friends/ 
relatives 
 
         
         
Medical/
Health 
 Religion/ 
Pilgrimage 
 Leisure/ 
holiday 
 Sport  Others 
 
 
24. Next destination/ Proceed to 
 
                
 
25.  Contact/ Phone No. in India 
                
 
26.  In country where permanently residing 
                
 
Note: - Please ensure that no column is left blank/incomplete. 
 
 * In case web camera/digital camera is not available, photocopy of the photograph in Passport 
may be enclosed. 
                                                                                                           
 
 
________________ 
 
Manager’s Signature”   
48 
 
Appendix -  VI 
Form  A 
Foreign Students Information System 
DATASHEET 
Student Information 
(to be furnished within 24 hours from the time of admission 
Surname  
Given name  
Date of Birth  
Gender  
Nationality  
Parent name Father name/ Mother name 
Parent Relation Father / Mother 
Address in India  
Institution Admission No.  
Date of joining in Institution  
Sponsoring Agency  
Passport number  
Date of issue of Passport  
Place of issue of Passport  
Passport issued Country  
Date of Expiry of Passport  
Visa number  
Visa issued Date  
Place of issue of Visa  
Visa issued Country  
Visa Expiry Date  
Visa Type  
Visa valid for  
Purpose of visit  
Course details 
(to be furnished within 24 hours of admission) 
Course Name  
Course Pattern Non-Semester/ Semester/ Short Term 
Course Duration  From Date:            To  Date: 
Fee Structure  
Registration with FRRO/ FRO 
(to be furnished within 14 days from the date of arrival) 
Registration Certificate No.  
RC issued Date  
RC Expiry Date  
49 
 
Change of Course Details 
(to be furnished within 24 hours from the time of change of course) 
Course Name  
Course Pattern Non-Semester/ Semester/ Short Term 
Course Duration From  Date:               To  Date: 
Fee Structure  
Academic Performance Entry 
(To be furnished Semester-wise; attendance details to be furnished half-yearly) 
Assessment Period From  Date:                To  Date: 
Attendance Regular/ Irregular 
Examination Conducted Yes / No 
Result Pass/ Fail 
General Conduct of Student Good/ Bad 
Enter Details of Conduct Remark Entry 
Eligible to Continue Course Yes/ No 
Exit Entry (Details of Student Exit from Institution) 
(to be furnished within 24 hours from the time of completion of the course/ date of exit 
from the institute/ course) 
Student’s Exit Information Date: 
Reason to Exit Course Completed/ Discontinued by Student/ 
Terminated. 
  
50 
 
Appendix  VII 
LIST OF CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS/ORGANIZATIONS, WHERE MISSIONS ARE 
AUTHORISED TO GRANT VISAS UP TO A PERIOD OF 5 YEARS 
         ANDHRA  PRADESH/ TELANGANA 
 
1. Shri Siddehendra Kaladshetram, Kuchipudi, Krishna Distt  -  521136. 
2. Kalakshetram, Ramachandra Rao Pet, Kluru, West Godavari. 
3. Sree Vankatarama Natya Mandali, Kuchipudi, Divi Taluk, Krishna Distt. 
4. Sri Ramasrishna Natya Mandali, 20/4 43, Konetimitta, Mulapet, Nellore – 524003. 
5. New Music School, 1-1-258 Chikkadapalli, Hyderabad – 500020. 
6. Varigapaki Reddigari Palli, Botlache Rewel, Rayachoty, Dit. Cuddapah. 
7. Sri Thyagarya Gana Sabha, Viveknagar, Hyderabad. 
8. Sri Sarda Natya Mandli, Vaspuru, Tanuku Taluk, West Godavari 
9. Sri Venkateswara Natya, Kala Paroshad, 100, Gandhi Road, Tirupati, Chittoor. 
10. Sree Sreenivasa Sangeetha Pathasala, Gutala- 534343, West Godavari. 
11. Nata Samakhya, Raja Street, Venkatagiri Town, Nellore 524132. 
12. Sri Srinivasa Natya Mandali, 16/1592-1, Rama Murthi Nagar, Nellore. 
13. Surabhi Yuva Kalakara Sangham, 1-7-9, Mushirabad, Hyderabad. 
14. Andhra University School of Fine Arts, Andhra University, Visakhapattanam – 530003. 
15. Andhra University Music Circle, Andhra Pradesh University, Visakhapattanam. 
16. Shri Venkateswara Natya Mandali, P.O. Polasanapalli, West Godavari. Distt. Andhra 
Pradesh. 
17. Natya Bharati, 4-55-1, Lawsons Bay Colony, Pedawaltair, Vishakhapattanam 530017. 
18. Kiran Kala Niketan, LIG – 589, Gr Floor, Fathenagar Colony, Hyderabad 500018. 
19. The Shyamnagar Welfare & Cultural Association, 10-1-18/40A, Shyamnagar, Hyderabad – 
500004. 
20. Sri Ramalingeshwara Las khmi Ganesh Kala Samitti, Kalikapalli, Rajore Taluk, East 
Godavari. 
21. Andhra Arts Academy, Gandhinagar, Vijayawada, A.P. 
22. Udaybhanu Kala Nilaya, Tannuku Road – Canal Road, Tadepelligude – 534102, A.P. 
23. Sri Rama Natya Mandali, 14/489 – Subedarpet, Nellore – 524001. 
24. Lalitha Kala Parishad, Anantpur,A.P. 
25. Sri Chandra Kala Nilayam, 12/155, Saraswati Street, Gudiwada – 521301, A.P. 
26. Sri Rajayam Theatres, Neelamahal  Street,  Gudiwada – 521301,A.P. 
27. Balasarasathi Natya Mandal, Vellaya Palem, Karur Taluk, Distt. Nellore, Andhra Pradesh. 
 
ASSAM 
 
28. Seujia Samaj Sangeet Vidydlaya, P.O. Sibsagar, Assam 
29. Silchar Sangeet Vidyalaya, P.O.   Silchar, Park Road, Distt.. Cachar(Assam) 
30. Manipuri Sangeet Ashram, Villaglle Singari, Sub. Div.  Silchar,  Distt. Cachar, Assam. 
31. Kala Guru Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, P.O.  Tejpur, Distt.  Darrang, Assam. 
32. Hatbor Kendriya Natya Samaj, P.O.. Hathor, Distt.  Newgong, Assam. 
33. Sibsagar Natya Samaj, Arundoy Path, P.O.  Sibsagar – 785640, Assam. 
34. Sri Sankardeva Kala Kristi Kendra, P.O.  Bhorulun Tini Ali,  Distt.  Sibsagar, Assam. 
35. Uttar Kamalabari Satra Sankardev Kristi Sangha, P.O.  Kamalabari, Majuli, Distt.  
Sibsagar, Assam. 
36. Gharmora  Model Stra Hills &  Plains Cultural Institution, P.O.  Dirgha,  Scajulle, North 
Lakshimpur, Pin.  787001, Assam. 
51 
 
37. Jagat Guru  Srimanta Sankaradev, Ktristi Kale Sangha,, Village   Natun Kanalabari, Satra, 
P.O.  Kamalbari  Majuli, Dt.  Sibsagar, Assam. 
38. Dasharupak, CulturalOrganization, Ullaskar Datta Sarani, Silchar -  788004, Assam. 
39. Manipuri Kala Academy, Lakhimpur- Khunou, P.O. Fulertal – 788106, Dt. Cachar, Assam. 
40. Sangita Sattra, C/o  Eastern Printers, Chandmari, Guwahati – 7881003, Assam.  
41. Mukhosh Sampradaya Drama & Cultural Society, Sen- D-Bari, Longai Road, Karimganj – 
788710. 
42. Ramkrishna Sangit, Mahavidyalaya, Ramkrishnagar – 788166, Dt. Cachar,   Assam. 
43. Bhaskarjyoti , Vill  Japia Kalitachupa, P.O.  Khudradimu, Dt.  Kamrup, Assam 
44. Sri Sankari Kala- Kristi, Bikash Samiti, Natu Kamalbari Satra, P.O.  Kamalbari, Majuli, 
Assam 
45. All Assam Swijyo Boica Soarani Akanka Nat, Pratigogita Samiti, Biswanath Chorioli, P.O. 
Charioli -  784176, Dt.  Darrang, Assam. 
46. Sangit Kala Mandir, Ramani Road, Karimgagnj  788710, Cachar, Assam 
47. Kalaguru Bisnu Rava Sangeet Bidyalaya, Vil.  Mazirgaon, P.O.  Bhattapara, Dt. Kamrup, 
Assam. 
48. Chandpur Amuthoi Sangeet, Vidyalaya, P.O.  Nagdirgram, Dt. Cachar, Assam. 
49. Assam Manipur Kala Akademi, Itkhola, P.O.  Silchar – 788001, St. Cachar, Assam.  
50. Sangit Kalamandir, Ramani Road, Karimganj – 788710, Cachar 
 
BIHAR 
 
51. Sharda  Sangeet Sadan, M.C. Road, Bhagalpur, Bihar. 
52. Sri Jagannath Art School, P.O. Seraikella – 833219  
53. Nritya Kala Kendra, No. 1, Straight Mile Road, Northern Town, Jamshedpur – 831002. 
54. Kala Bhawan, Purnia – 854301. 
 
CHANDIGARH 
 
55. Pracheen Kala  Kendra, Kothi No.197, Sector  16-A, Chandigarh 160016. 
56. Indian National Theatre, 119, Sector 36-A, Chandigarh. 
 
DELHI 
 
57. Shriram Bharatiya Kala Kendra, No. 1, Copernicus Marg, New Delhi –2. 
58. Abhiyan, C-5, Press Enclave, Saket, New Delhi -  110017. 
59. Sri Ram Centre for Art & Culture, 4, College Road, New Delhi. 
60. Pravatiya Kala Kendra, R – 23, Indrapuri, New Delhi. 
61. Nritya Kaustubha Cultural Society, D –I/39, Satya Marg, Chnakyapuri, New Delhi. 
62. Society for the Promotion of Indian Classical Music & Culture Amongst Youth, B 22 
Gitanjali, Malviya Nagar, New Delhi 
63. Bharatiya Sangeet Sadan, 52, Community  Centre, East of Kailash, New Delhi – 65.  
64. Centre for Indian Classical Dances, C-304, Defence Colony, New Delhi.  
65. Delhi Institute of Music, Dance & Dramatics, V-13, Rajouri Garden, New Delhi. 
66. Akshra Theatre, 118, Baba Kharak Singh Marg, New Delhi.  
67. Delhi School of Music, 8, Nayaya Nagar, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi – 110021. 
68. Nrithanajali, C.3/213, Janakpuri, New Delhi – 110058. 
69. Chayan, C-1423, Chittaranjan Park, New Delhi – 110019. 
70. Avadh Theatre Group, 1, Miranda House, Staff Flat, Delhi University, Delhi – 110001. 
71. Indian Centre for Cultural Integration, 16/21. W.E.A. Karol Bagh, New Delhi 110005. 
72. Divy Jyoti Cultural Organization, 49, VI Floor, Udyan Marg, Kalibari Apartments, New 
Delhi. 
52 
 
73. Urvashi Pushap, H.C. 10804, Subhash Park, Naveen Bhandara, Delhi – 110032.  
 
GOA 
 
74. Kala Shuklendu, E - 313, Dr. Shirgaokar Road, Panaji, Goa – 403001. 
75. Kalanjali Ciltural Institution, P.O. Box No. 230, Margao, Goa. 
76. Mohan Orchestra, Pandit Dharmanand Kosembe Bldg, 3 rd Floor, Block A, Room No. 18, 
Swatasntra Path, Vascodagama, Goa.  
77. Dayanand kala Kenadra, 1st Floor, Fofur Bldg, Churchoran, Goa – 403706. 
 
GUJARAT 
 
78. Sangeet Natya Bharti, Chhabi Villa, 8, Kashiviswanath Plot, Rajkot – 360001. 
79. Bharatiya Sangeet Sansad, “Chhabi – Villa” 8, Kashiviswaqnath Plot, Rajkot – 360001.  
80. Mahipat Kavi’s Puppets Theatre, 2, Patrakar Colony No. 2, P.O.  Shastrinagar, Ahmedabad 
– 380013.  
81. Rang Milan Kal Mandal, Opp. R. C. High School, Shahpur, Ahmedabad - 380001. 
 
HIMACHAL PRADESH 
 
82. United Theatres, 17/5, Gulab Cottage, Shankali, Simla. 
83. Tibetan Institute of Performing Arts, Mcleod Ganj, Dharmasala – 176219, Dt. Kangra. 
 
HARYANA 
 
84. Haryana Sanskrit Vidyapeeth, Baghoula, Dt.  Faridabad. 
 
J & K 
 
85. Gulshan Theatre, Balapora – 192302, Thesil Shopian, Pulwama, Kashmir 
86. Manasbal Dramatics, Sajapur – 193504. 
87. Ram Kala Mandir, Udhampur. 
88. Kashmir Bhagat Theatre, Akingam, Anantanag, Kashmir. 
89. National Bhand Theatre, Wahthora, Chadoora, Kashmir 
90. Kowser Theatre, Taiya Imamsahib, Shopian, Anantnag, Kashmir. 
91. Bomal Luk Theatre, Bomai Sopore, Kashmir. 
92. Wular Theatre, Zaingeer, Bomai, Sopore, Kashmir. 
93. Shahwali Lukarang Flok Theatre, Drugmulla – 193222. 
94. National Theatre Badgam, Kashmir – 189111. 
95. Kashmir Youth Cultural Art, Chadoora – 191113. 
 
KARNATAKA 
 
96. Karnataka Gana Kala Parishat, 183,8th Cross, 2nd Block, Bangalore 560011. 
97. Natakshiromani, A.V. Varandachar Memorial Art,Association, South Central Road, 
Seshadripuran, Bangalore – 560020. 
98. Sri Bkanatheswari Sangeetha Kala Mandir, Chitradura – 577501, Karnataka.  
99. Sri Nilakanteshwara Natya Seva, Sangha Heggodu Sagar – 577417. 
100. Yokshagana Kendra, Loka Campus, MGM College, Udupi – 576102. 
101. Handardutta Yakshagana Kala Kendra, P.O.  Airpody – 576226. 
102. Sri Rama Lalitha Kala Mandi (College of Mjusic), No. 9, III Main Tata Silk F arm, 
Basavanagudi, Bangalore – 560004. 
103. The Meenakshi Sundram Centre of Performing Arts, (Basti West Sariskruti Niketam), 
No.I.BP Wadia Road, Basavangudi, Bangalore – 560 004. 
53 
 
104. The Bangalore Gayana Samaja, Shri Krishnarajendra Road, Basavanamudi, Bangalore- 560 
004. 
105. Karnataka Jampade Trust, No.7, Fourth Block, Kumare Park West, Bangalore-560 020. 
106. Shri Ayyangar College of Music, 86, H.B. Samaj Road, Basayanagudi, Bangalore – 560 
001. 
107. Mahila Yekahagana Kala Mitra Mandali, No.10A, 5 th Block II,Cross, Lower Palace , 
Orchards, Bangalore – 560 003. 
108. Nupura (School of Barratnatyam), No.4, 12th Class, Malleswaram, Bangalore – 560 003. 
109. Karnataka Rajya Samudaya Samanvaya Samithi, 46 Shop Street, Basavanagudi, Bangalore 
– 560 004. 
110. Palighat Muni Iyer Memorial Art Centre, 183/3, 8th Cross, 2nd Floor, Jayanagar, Bangalore-
560 011. 
111.  Rajejinagar Sangetha Sabha, 302, First Block, Rajajinagar, Bangalore –  
560 010. 
112. Jokumar Swamy Kala Balag, Ambika Nagar (Karnataka). 
113. Shri Varalakshmi Academics of Fine Arts, Ramavilas, 688, Kashipath i, Agraher, 
Chamaraja, Double Road, Mysore-570 04. 
114. Geleyara Balaga, C/o Mondya Book Bureau, Vinobha Road, Subhash Nagar, Mondya –572 
401. 
115. Mallika, 36/2-VII Cross, 14th Main Anumantha Nagar, Bangalore –   560 019 
116. Nruputhanga Kala Ranga, 755, Basavi Nilaya, Yashwantha Pur, Bangalore-560022. 
117. Shri Ranganayaki Sthre Samaja, Shri Rangapatya – 571 438. 
118. Ranga Sampada, 12-V4, Deshpande Building, Samadevi Galli, Belgaum –590001. 
119. The Theosophical Society, Belgaum Lodge, Ramaghat Road, Contonment, Belgaum – 
590002. 
120. Ramgbhoomi, Dramatic *n Cultural Association, Ajjarkad, Udjupi – 576 101. 
121. Kanada Sangh, State Bank of India, Bangalore Branch, St. Marks Road,   Bangalore -
560001. 
122. Kanada Mithraru, II-164. Kolar Gold Fields – 563115. 
123. Rangabharati Sanskritika Sangha, Sidhalinga Krupa, Nehru Ganj, Gulbarga-585104. 
 
KERALA 
 
124. Kerala Kala Mandram, Thiruvambady, Trichur – 680 001 
125. Vijana Kala Vedi Centre, “Gopi Vilas”. Amgadole;. Puthenkavu P.O (Via) Chengannur –  
689 123 Kerala. 
126. Kunchan Smaraka Samithi, Killikkurissimangalam, P.O. Lakkidi, Palghat Distt (Kerala). 
127. Vnnayi Warrier Smaraka  Kalanileyam, Irinjalakuda 680121, Trichur Distt. Kerala. 
128. School of Drama, University of Calicut, Dr. John Matabai Centre, Aranathukara P.O. 
Trichur – 680618 (Kerala) 
129. Gandhi Seva Sadan Kathkali & Classic Arts Academy, P.O. Gandhi Seva Sadan, Parur, 
Palgaht Distt, Kerala. 
130. Rangaorabath Children’s Theatre, Alumthara, Venjaramooldu P.O.  Trivandrum Distt. 
Kerala. 
131. Dr. K.N. Pasharoty Swaraka Kathkali Club, Irinjalakuda – 680 121., 
132. Kerala Natya Academy, Krivish, T.C. No. 9/1986, Sasthamangalam, Trivandrum 
 
MADHYA PRADESH 
 
133. Shankar Gandhrava Mahavidlaya, Kimpoo Road, Leshkar, 237, Gwalior – 474 001. 
134. Sharda Sangeet Mahavidlaya, George Town Primary Shalla, Jabalpur (MP) 
135. Artists Combine, Navkar Wada, Lohiya Bazar, Gwalior – 474 001 (MP) 
54 
 
136. Lok Kala Manch Pasndvani, Post Office Randha, Disst. Durg,(M.P.) 
137. Kishore Kirti Sangeet Kala Sahkari Samiti Ltd., Bhilai, Q.No. 3/A, Street 16- VIII, Madhya 
Pradesh. 
138. Sangeet Samaj. C/o Bhat Khande Music College Near Madan Mahal Police Station 
W/Town, Jabalpur 482002,MP. 
139. Madhuvanti, baitooll – 460001,MP 
140. Ustad Allauddin Khan Akademi, Lalit Kala Bhavan, Tagore Marg, Bhopal. 
141. Kalidas Akademi, Sethi Nagar, Ujjain – 456001. 
 
MAHARASHTRA 
 
142. Gokul Prakalpa Pratishthan, Pingul, Kudal Distt., Ratanagiri, Mhaashtra.  
143. Kala Chhaya Kathak Dence Institute, 759/94-B,Parbat Road, Pune  411004. 
144. Ranhasharada Prathishthan, ‘Parijat’  5 Makarand, Sanjaniwas, Senapati Bapat, Marg, 
Dadar. 
145. Bhartiyya Sangeet Prasarak Mandal’s, Gandharva Mahavidyalaaya, 495, Shanwar  Peth, 
Pune. 
146. Gayan Vedan Vidyalaaayaa, 212, Shamkalyan, Shivajinagar, Nanded. 
147. Rural Communes, 70, IInd Floor, Ist Marine Street, Mumbai. 
148. Progressive Dramatic Association, 759/100, Deccan Gyamkhana, Poona. 
149. Sangit Mahabharati, Plot No. A/6,10 th Road, Juhu Parle Scheme, Ville Parle(West), 
Mumbai. 
150. Shri Shiwanand Sangit Maqhavidyalaya Wardhs, Samarth Wadi, Wardha. 
151. Aiwshkar, B/6, Shakun, Shahji Raje Marg, Vile Parle, Mumbai. 
152. Tamash Kala Kalavant Vikas Mandir, C/o New Hanumnan Theatre Industrial Estate 
Compound, Lalbaug, Mumbai. 
153. Nritya Bharati Kathak Dance Academy, 1256, Shivaji Nagar, Pune. 
154. Bal Natya, Radha Niwas, Tilak Road, Dadar, Mumbai. 
155. Indian National Theatre, Bombay Mutual Building, 19/21, Haman Street, 2 nd Floor, 
Mumbai. 
156. Nalanda Dance Research , Centre, Plot A -7/1, N.S. Road, No. 10, J.V.P.D. Scheme, Vile 
Parle(West),Mumbai. 
157. Dalit Ranga Bhoomi, C/o Shri Krishna Vaidya Classes, Daruwala Bridge, Sonwar Peth 
Pune. 
158. Pandit Vihayakrao Patwardh Smarak Samiti, 181 Shivaji Nagar, Miraj House, Pune. 
159. The Goal Bindue Association, Gomant Dhami, 358, Dr. Bhadkiamkar Road, Mumbai. 
160. Natya Aradhanna, 196, Gold Field Peth, Solapur. 
161. Bharatiya Haarikatha and Kritan Mahavidyalaya, Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Dr. K.M. 
Munshi Marg, Chowapaty, Mumbai. 
162. Akhil Bharatiya Gandharava Mahavidyala Mandal, Ganghrya Niketan, Brahmanpur, Miraj 
163. Nritya Shree, 3, Dhoke Colony, Jaiprakash Andheri(West). 
164. Bhaskar Sangeet Vidyalaaya, Bajirao Road, Shaniparajah , Pune. 
 
MANIPUR 
 
165.  Manipuri Nartanalaya Sougaijam Leirak, Moirangokhom, Imphal 
166. The Maitel Laima Jatra Cum Drama Association, Sagol Band, Takyal Kolam Leikai, 
B.P.O. Langjong Achouba, Imphal. 
167. Progressive Artist Laboratory, Uripot, Baobam,Dewan Lane, Imphal. 
168. Social Dramatic Union, Uripok, Achom Leikai, Imphal. 
169. Touryatrik Kala Vikas Sangha Nata College, O.O. Singiamei Bazar, Imphal. 
170. Shri Govindaji Bhakti Granth Kendra Bidyalaya, Brahmapur Thankapat Mapal, Imphal. 
55 
 
171. Manipuri Jagoi Marup, Johnstone Scholl Hall, Imphal. 
172. Manipuri Nat Sangeet Ashram, Konsba Bazar, Imphal. 
173. The Panthoibi Natya Mandir, Yumanm Leikai, Imphal. 
174. Hula Sindam Sang, Keisamthong Laison Lairaqk, Imphal. 
175. The Huyel Lallong Manipur, Thank- Ta Cultural Association, Iripbung Keirao, B.P. 
Manipur.. 
176. Rangamei Naga Arts and Cultural Association, Tamenglong, Manipur West District. 
177. Sangeet Academy, Kakching Kaulen Part III, P.O. Kakching Bazar. 
178. The Socity Theatre, Manipur, Keisampat Sega, Lambi Jailoo Leirak, Imphal. 
179. Guru Amubi’s Nritya Vidyala, C/o Johnstone School Hall, Imphal. 
180. Shri Shree Govindajee Nartanalaya, Palace Road, Imphal. 
181. Sangeet Kala Sangam, Lamlong Bazar, Imphal 
182. Progressive Artists Laboratory, Uripok Haobam Dewan Lane, Imphal. 
 
ODISHA 
 
183. Orissa Dance Academi, Plot No. 78, Karavele Nagar, Unit -3, Bhubaneswar -
750002(Odisha). 
184. Nrutya Sangeet Kalamandir, Town Hall Compund, Balasore-756001 (Odisha). 
185. Satabira Kalakar, Qr.No.J/75, Reserve Bank Colony, Unit -IV, Bhubaneswar -
750001(Odisha). 
186. Orissam Sangit Parishad, Station Rd., Puri-752002. 
187. Kala Vikash Kendra, KVK Marg, Cuttack-753001 (Odisha) 
188. Bhanja Kala Kendra, Bhanja Bhawan, Rourkela-769002(Odisha). 
189. Music Circle, Qr.No. B/50, Sector, 17, Rourkela-769003(Odisha). 
190. Sangeet Kala Sansad, Choudwar Tala Bazar, Choudwar-754005, Distt. Cuttack (Odisha) 
191. Utkal College of Music Dance, C/o National Music Association, Machhuabazar, P.O. 
Boxibazar, Distt. Cuttack-(Odisha).-753001. 
192. Bhubaneswar Kala Kendra, Ganganagar, Unit-6, Bhubaneswar-750001(Odisha). 
193. Narendrapur kala vikash Kendra, distt. Ganjan, narendrapur-761051(Odisha). 
194. Manmohan Sangeet Parishad, Bhadrak-756100, Distt  Balasore (Odisha). 
195. Satyabadi Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Temple Rd., Sakhigopal, Puri-752014 (Odisha). 
196. Swara Tirth, Bhadrak-756100 Distt. Balasore (Odisha). 
197. Ganjam Kala Parishad, Utkal Ashram Rd., Berhmpur-760001 (Odisha). 
 
PUNJAB 
 
198. Rajeshwari Kala Sangam, Ring Rd., New Jawahar Nagar, Jaullundhur-144001. 
 
RAJASTHAN 
 
199. Kala Bharati, Alwar-301001 (Rajasthan). 
200. National Theatre Society, K.E.M. Road, Choutina Wall, Bikaner-334001. 
201. Sangeet  Natya Niketan, J. One Road, Bhupalpura, P.O. Udaipur-313001 (Rajasthan) 
202. Triturti, `Rituraj', M.I. Road, Jaipur-302001 (Rajasthan). 
203. Triveni Sanstha, 6 Agrasen Nagar, Udaipur. 
204. Anurag Kala Kendra, 1-5/22 Pawanpuri, Bikaner. 
 
TAMIL NADU 
 
205. Kuchipudi Art  Academy, 5, Prakasam Road, T. Nagar, Chennai-600014 
206. Balasubramanya Sangeetha Sabha Music School, Flat No.24, I Block, Turabul Road, 
Nadanam, Chennai-600035. 
56 
 
207. Sree Bhartalanya, 51, Luz Church Road,  Mylapore, Chennai-600004 
208. Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha , 31 Thirumajana   Veedhi, Thiruvaiyaru, Thanjavur 
Distt. (Tamil Nadu). 
209. Vazhuvoorar Classical Bharata Natya Art Centre, Brindawan, Mylapore, Chennai-600028. 
210. I.N.A. Theatres, No.6, School View Road, Ramakrishnanagar, Chennai-600028. 
211. Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, Gana Vihar, No.8, Girffith Road, Thyagarajanagar, Chennai -
600004. 
212. Sri Jaysreesi Tala Vadya Vidylaya, 74, Pilier, Koil Street, Triplicane, Chennai-600005. 
213. Tamil Isai Sangam, Raja Annamalai Hall, Esplanade, Chennai-600001. 
214. The Music Academy, 306, T.T.K. Road, Chennai-600014. 
215. Sri Purandaradasar Sangeetha Vidyalaya No.10-A, V.O.C. Road, R.S. Puram, Coimbatore -
2 (Tamil Nadu). 
216. Sri Lakshmi Neresimha Jayanthi Mkela Natya Nataka Sangam, No.64, South Street, 
Melattur-614301, Tanjore Distt. (Tamil Nadu). 
217. Kalakshetra College of Fine Arts, Thiruvanmiyur, Chennai-600041. 
218. Sri Tirtha Naryana Swamigal Celebration Committee, Upoonthurauthi, Distt. Thanjavur 
(Tamil Nadu). 
219. Purisai Raghava Thambiran Tarabarai Theurkketthu Mandram, Purisai Vllg.& Post (Visa) 
Anukkaroor, 604411, North Arkot Distt., (Tamil Nadu). 
220. Natanamani Natya Niketan, 21, Khan Sahib Street, Choolaimedu, Chennai-94. 
 
UTTAR PRADESH 
 
221. Brij Kala Kendra, Gali Rawalie, Lal Darwaza, Kachi Sarak, Mathura (Uttar Pradesh) 
222. Bal Sanghrahalaya, Motilal Nehru Marg, Charbagh, Lucknow-226001 (Uttar Pradesh) 
223. Muktakash Natya Sansthan, 486, Subhash Nagar, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) 
224. Prabhu Sri Ramlal Sangeet Vidyalaya, 93 Near Thsil, Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh) 
225. Lok Kal Kendra, Darkote, P.O. Munsiyari, Distt. Pithoragarh (Uttar Pradesh) 
226. Darpan, 8/28, Arya Nagar, Kanpur (Uttar Pradesh) 
227. Maharaja Banaras Vidya Mandir Turst, Fort Ram Nagar, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 
228. All India Kashiraj Trust, Fort  Ramnagar, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 
229. Shri Swami Haridasa Kala Sansthan, Shri Ranj Ji Udyan, Varindaban, Distt. Mathura (Uttar 
Pradesh) 
230. Darpan Chikan Mahal, 1, Subhash Marg, Lucknow-226003. 
231. Raj Murthi Sangit Vidyalaya, Sujan Ganj, Jaunpur, (Uttar Pradesh) 
232. Lakshmi Sangeet Kala Mahavidyalaya, Mohalla Naurangabad, Etawah (Uttar Pradesh) 
233. Saraswati Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Sitapur-261001 (Uttar Pradesh) 
234. Meghdut, 51/40, Udai Ganj Road, Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) 
235. Roopantar Natya Manch, 23-G, Haripuri Colony, Gorakhpur (Uttar Pradesh) 
236. Nritya Sangeet Prashikshan Kendra, 37/528, A, New Nagla Padi, Agra (Uttar Pradesh) 
237. Nakshatra International C/O Sri Kumud Nagar, Kothi Shahji, Mirzamand Chowk, 
Lucknow-226003. 
 
UTTARAKHAND 
 
238. Songten Library, Centre for Tibetan and Himalayan Studies, Drikung Institute, Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand. 
 
WEST BENGAL 
 
239. Theatre Workshop, 11, Pal Street, Kolkata-70004. 
240. Manipuri Nartanalaya, 15 A, Bipin Pal Road, Kolkata-700026 (West Bengal) 
57 
 
241. Rabindra Sangit Sik hayatan `Rabindra Nilay', Rabindranagar, Midnapore -721101 (West 
Bengal) 
242. Lokayata Sanskriti Parishad, 60, Jatindra Mohan Avenue, 4th Floor, Kolkata-700005. 
243. Youth Puppet Theatre, India, 2, Sewak Baidya Street, Kolkata-700029. 
244. Udya Shankar India -Culture Centr e,Jay Jayanthi 10 A 2, Mandeville Gardens, Kolkata-
700019. 
245. Saurabh, 20, Lensdowne Road, Kolkata-700020 (West Bengal) 
246. Indian Mime Theatre, 20/6, Seal Lane, Kolkata-700015 (West Bengal) 
247. Chorus, 121, Harish Mukherji Road, Kolkata-700019. 
248. Kolkata Puppet Theatre, 20, Ballyganj Kashba Flyover, Kolkata-19 
249. Anamika, 4, Biship Lefrey Road, Kolkata-20 (West Bengal) 
250. Sangit Kala Kendra, P.O. Math Chandipur-721650, Distt. Minnapur (West Bengal) 
251. Ragini, 49, Panchanangola Lane, Kolkata-26 
252. Padaboli, 68/4b, Purana Das Road, Kolkata-26 
253. Children's Little Theatre, Aban Mahal, Gariahat Road, Kolkata-29 
254. Sundaram, 57, Jatin Das Road, Kolkata-33. 
255. Meitai Jagoi, P-21, Golf Club Road, Kolkata-33. 
256. Akademi Of Folklore, 46/2, Gariahat Road, Kolkata-29 
257. Santi Sangh Sangeet, Vidylaya For Girls, Distt. Bankura-722154, (West Bengal) 
258. Santi Sangh Sangeet, Vidylaya For Boys, Ghatra More, P.O. Galia,  Distt. Bankura -
722154, (West Bengal) 
259. Santi Sangh, Chitra Mal, P.O. Galai-722154 Distt. Bankura 
260. Nata Natyam, 7/1, Priya Nath Ghosh Lane, Howrah-711104 (West Bengal) 
261. Swami Prajnananda Smriti Rakesha Samiti, P.O. And Vill. Mahisahdal, Distt. Midnapore -
721628 (West Bengal) 
262. Santi Sangha Sangeet Vidyalaya, Chatra More, P.O. Galia. 
263. Hrishikesh Sangeet Vidyalaya, Ramsitapur, P.O. Nadiwip, Distt. Nadia (West Bengal) 
264. Suramandir Music College, Srinagar, Ranaghat, Distt. Nadia (West Bengal) 
265. Chhayanat Sangeet Vidyapith, East Chandmari, Anandapur, P.O. Nona -Chandanpukar, 
(West Bengal) 
266. Provarshi Devi Sangeet, Mahavidyalaya For Boys, Chatramore, P.O. Galia, Distt. Bankura-
722154 (West Bengal) 
267. Himalaya Kala Mandir, Banerjee Lodge, Laden La Road, P.O. Darjeeling  
268. Bohrupee, 7, Lower Range, Kolkata-17 
269. Ustad Nasir Moinuddin Daagar, Dhurpad Sangeet Ashram, 72- A, Jatindas Road, Kolkata -
700 029. 
270. Gandharva, 51/1, Palm Avenue, Kolkata-19 
271. Provabotidevi Sangeet Mahvidyalaya for Girls, P.O. Galia, Distt. Bankura, PIN 722154  
272. Provabotidevi Sangeet, Mahavidyalaya for Boys, P.O. Galia, Distt. Bankura, PIN-722154  
273. Aggragami Sangha, P.O. & Vill. Boinchigram, (Dakshinpara) Distt. Hoogly. 
274. Loko Tirtha Music College, Sripalli-713103, Distt. Burdwan. 
275. The Blind Releif Assoc.Delhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg, New Delhi-3 
276. Sriniwas Malliah Memorial, Theatre Crafts Trust, Theatre Crafts Museum Bldg., 5, Dean 
Dayal Upadhyay Marg, New Delhi. 
277. Humsub, Aiwan-E-Ghalib Marg, New Delhi-2 
278. Shyam Sudner Sangeet Mahavidyalaya, Grand Road, Near Putia Rani Temple, Old Bus 
Stand, P.O. Distt. Puri (Orissa). 
279. Sri Ram Swarup Sangeet Sadan, Barnala (Punjab) 
280. Drukpa Korgyid Assoc. Forest View Villa, West Point Darjeeling, (West Bengal). 
281. Kala Angan, 1706, Bakultala Lane, Kolkata. 
 
58 
 
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IMPARTING TRAINING IN YOGA AND VEDIC CULTURE 
WHERE MISSIONS ARE AUTHORISED TO GRANT VISAS UPTO A PERIOD OF FIVE 
YEARS: 
 
1. Yoga Sadhana Kendra,(Centre for Yoga) Malaviya Bhavan, Banaras Hindu    University, 
Varanasi  -  221005. 
2. Kaivalyadhama, Lonavala, Maharashtra. 
3. The Yoga Institute, Santa Cruz, Mumbai. 
4. The Divine Life Society, Shivanad Nagar, Rishikesh. 
5. The India Instt. Of Yoga and Allied Sciences, Tirupati. 
6. G.S. College of Yoga & Cultural Synthesis, Kaivalyadhama, Lonavala Distt.  
a. Pune – 410403. 
7. Kaivalyadhama, I.Y. Centre, 43, Netaji Subash Marg, Mumbai. 
8. Deptt. of Yoga Studies, University of Sagar, Sagar, M.P. 
9. The Teachers’ Training Centre, Vishwayatan Yogashram, Vaishno Devi, J ammu &  
Kashmir/Delhi. 
10. Deptt. of Yoga Studies, Govt. Yoga Centre, Chandigarh. 
11. Deptt. of Yoga Studies,  H. P. University, Shimla 
12. Instt. Of Yoga Studies, Karnataka University, Karnataka. 
13. Sankhya Yoga Tantra Agam, Sampurnand University, U.P. 
14. The Ramakrishna Mission. 
15. The Theosophical Society, Chennai. 
16. Yoga Institute Ramakrishna Nagar, Chennai (run by Shri T. K. V. Desikachar). 
17. Sivananda Ashram, Rishikesh. 
18. Sandeepany Sadhanalaya, Mumbai ( of Swami Chinmayananda). 
19. Gurdev Siddha  Peeth , Ganeshpuri ( Maharashtra) 
20. International Society of Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON) 
21. Bihar School of Yoga, Moonger. 
22. Yogoda Satsang Society, Ranchi. 
23. Shri Vidya Samithi, Malakara, Kerala 
24. Auroville Foundation, Dist. South Arcot, Tamil  Nadu. 
25. Om Swaroope, 1170/12, Revenne Collony, Pune. 
26. Shri Ram Chandra Mission, Shahjahanpur (U. P.). 
27.  Mata Amritaandamayi Math, Amritapuri P.O, Kollam Distrit, Kerala. 
28. Bihar Yoga Bharati, an Institute for Advanced Studies in Yogic Sciences, Munger, Bihar 
29. Arsha Vidya Gurukulam, Anaikatti P.O., Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 
 
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IMPARTING TRAINING IN YOGA, VEDIC CULTURE, INDIAN 
SYSTEM OF  DANCE, MUSIC, etc. WHERE MISSIONS ARE AUTHORISED TO GRANT 
VISAS UPTO A PERIOD OF THREE YEARS 
 
1. Vedanta Academy, Malavali, Pune, Maharashtra 
2. Isha Yoga Foundation, Velliangiri Foothills, Semmedu (P.O.), Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu 
3. Lishu Institute, Kotra Kalyanpur,  P.O. Raioli Horrawala, Tehsil Vikas Nagar, District  Dehradun, 
Uttarakhand 
  
LIST OF INSTITUTIONS IMPARTING TRAINING IN YOGA, VEDIC CULTURE, INDIAN 
SYSTEM OF  DANCE, MUSIC, etc. WHERE MISSIONS ARE AUTHORISED TO GRANT 
VISAS UPTO A PERIOD OF ONE YEAR 
 
1. Shri Satya Sai Baba Ashram, Puttaparthi, Andhra Pradesh. 
2. Shri Shyam Ashram, Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. 
59 
 
3. Swami Dayanand Ashram, Rishikesh, Uttarakhand. 
4. Matha Amrithanandamayi Mutt, Vallikkavu, Quilon. 
5. Satyanand Ashram, Rajnandgaon. 
6. Himalayan Institute of Hospital Trust, Dehradun, Uttarakhand. 
7. Anoopam Mission, Gujarat 
8. International Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centre, Neyyar Dam, Trivandrum, Kerala 
9. Jeevan Dhara Ashram, Pauri Garhwal, Uttarakhand. 
10. Mahashakti Education Society, Hardwar, Uttarakhand. 
11. Sharda Math, 24 Parganas, West Bengal. 
12. Mahabodhi Society, Kolkata, West Bengal. 
13. Library of Buddhist Dialects and Studies, Himachal Pradesh. 
14. Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya, Mount Abu, Rajasthan. 
15. Avtar Mehar Baba Perpetual, Public Charitable Trust, Ahmednagar,Maharashtra. 
16. Sri Ganapati Sachidananda Avadhoota Datt Peetha, Mysore, Karnataka. 
17. Atma Shakti Vidyalaya, Bangalore, Karnataka. 
18. Sri Ramanashramama, Tiruvannamalai, Sambhuvanagar, Tamil Nadu. 
19. Om Ashram, Kullu, Himachal Pradesh. 
20. International Gaudiya Vaishanava society,  Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh. 
21. International Centre for Yoga Education and Research,Matastreet, Chinamad, Kotakuppam, 
Tamil Nadu. 
22. Ramamani Iyenger Memorial Yoga Institute, Pune, Maharashtra. 
23. Vraja Academy, Vrindavan, Uttar Pradesh. 
24. Sarthak Manav Kushtha Ashram, Jaipur, Rajasthan. 
25. Sakya College, Rajpur, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 
26. Govind sadan, Gadaipur, Mehrauli, New Delhi. 
27. Thakur Kirpal Adhyatmic Kendra Spiritual, Cultural & Charitable Trust, Manav Kendra 
Enclave, Delhi-110 041. 
28. Gandharva Mahavidyalay, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Marg, New Delhi. 
29. Atam Darshan Yoga Ashram. 
30. Dibyadham Yogashram,Puri, Odisha. 
31. Seekers’ Trust, Sadhana Kendra, Dehradun, Uttarakhand. 
32. Jiva Institute, Faridabad, Haryana. 
33. Krishnamachari Yoga Mancharam, 13, 4th Cross Street, Ramakrishnanagar, Chennai, Tamil 
Nadu-600 028. 
34. Shri Vishwadeep Gurukul Maheshwarand Ashram, Jadav, Paali Distt., Rajasthan. 
35. The International Shivananda Yoga Vedantaq Centre, Trivandrum , Kerala.  
36. Sthalam 8 Ashtanga Yoga Shala, Chamarajapuram, Mysore 
37. Aurovalley Ashram, Rishidwar, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 
38. Vishwatmak Jangli Maharaj Ashram Trust, Kokamthan, Taluka Kopergaon, District  
Ahmednagar, Maharashtra. 
39. Swami Rama Sadhaka Grama Dhyana Mandiram Trust, Rishikesh, Uttarakhand 
40. Swami Omkarananda Saraswati Charitable Trust, Uttarakhand 
******   
  
  
60 
 
Appendix  VIII 
List of 104 peaks opened for mountaineering expeditions in Jammu & Kashmir (Leh area) 
   
Sr. No. Name Height Map No. Long. Lat. 
1.  Lingsarmo 6955 m 52-B-04 34° 10’  21” 76° 04’ 52” 
2.  Rungofarka 6395 m 52-B-04 34° 02’  05” 76° 03’ 34” 
3.  Techafarka 6495 m 52-B-04 34° 02’  01” 76° 05’ 38” 
4.  Pt 6148 6148 m 52-B-04 34° 02’49” 76° 02’ 08” 
5.  Shafat 1 6800 m 52-B-04 34° 00’ 40” 76° 05’ 07” 
6.  Photoksar 6080 m 52-B-16 34° 01’ 42” 76° 47’ 48” 
7.  Shafat  II 6302 m 52-C-01 33° 56’ 38” 76° 06’ 43” 
8.  Shafat  III 6155 m 52-C-01 33° 56’ 16” 76° 08’ 22” 
9.  Chiling I 6349 m 52-C-01 33° 48’ 43” 76° 09’ 44” 
10.  Chiling II 6253 m 52-C-01 33° 49’ 09” 76° 10’ 00” 
11.  Lalung I 6243 m 52-C-01 33° 45’ 35” 76° 14’ 13” 
12.  Lalung II 6157 m 52-C-01 33° 47’ 00” 76° 12’ 02” 
13.  Lalung III 6126 m 52-C-01 33° 45’ 22 ” 76° 12’ 00” 
14.  Pt 6048 6048 m 52-C-05 33° 47’ 56” 76° 15’ 17” 
15.  Pt 6197 6197 m 52-C -05 33° 47’ 04” 76° 15’ 46” 
16.  Pt 6274 6274 m 52-C-05 33°  49’04” 76° 15’17” 
17.  Pt 6485 6485 m 52-C-05 33° 45’ 24” 76° 20’ 21” 
18.  Pt 6067 6067 m 52-C-05 33° 46’ 06” 76° 15’ 40” 
19.  Pt 6035 6035 m 52-C-06 33° 42’ 00” 76° 18’ 18” 
20.  Pk 6000 6000 m 52-C-06 33° 38’ 47” 76° 24’ 11” 
21.  Pt 6125 6125 m 52-C-06 33° 37’ 51” 76° 21’ 56” 
22.  Pt 6080 6080 m 52-C-06 33° 37’ 19” 76° 21’ 56” 
23.  Pt 6240 6240 m 52-C-06 33° 35’ 04” 76° 22’ 18” 
24.  Hagshu I 6515 m 52-C-06 33° 32’ 45” 76° 27’ 55” 
25.  Pt 6035 6035 m 52-C-06 33° 31’ 35” 76° 28’ 47” 
26.  Pt 6157 6157 m 52-C-15 33° 25’ 02” 76° 48’ 59” 
27.  Pt 6162 6162 m 52-C-15 33° 23’ 54” 76° 48’ 32” 
28.  Pt 6184 6184 m 52-C-15 33° 23’ 23” 76° 48’ 26” 
29.  Pt 6431 6431 m 52-C-15 33° 23’ 09” 76° 48’ 47” 
30.  Pt 6436 6436 m 52-C-15 33° 22’ 02” 76° 47’ 41” 
31.  Pt 6028 6028 m 52-C-15 33° 22’ 18” 76° 51’ 33” 
61 
 
32.  Pt 6107 6107 m 52-C-15 33° 20’ 04” 76° 47’ 08” 
33.  Pt 6022 6022 m 52-C-15 33 ° 19’ 42” 76° 46’ 08” 
34.  Pt 6018 6018 m 52-G-01 33° 45’ 37” 77° 04’ 11” 
35.  Pt 6126 6126 m 52-G-01 33° 01’ 50” 77° 01’ 02” 
36.  Pt 6034 6034 m 52-G-01 33° 47’ 25” 77° 03’ 01” 
37.  Pt 6075 6075 m 52-G-02 33° 38’ 31” 77° 12’ 33” 
38.  Pt 6120 6120 m 52-G-02 33° 40’ 48” 77° 09’ 03” 
39.  Pt 6150 6150 m 52-G-02 33° 39’ 45” 77° 10’ 35” 
40.  Pt 6020 6020 m 52-G-04 33° 09’ 24” 77° 02’ 14” 
41.  Pt 6140 6140 m 52-G-04 33° 08’ 00” 77° 01’ 51” 
42.  Pt 6165 6165 m 52-G-04 33° 07’ 21” 77° 00’ 56” 
43.  Pt 6045 6045 m 52-G-04 33° 06’ 49” 77° 02’ 18” 
44.  Pt  6080 6080 m 52-G-04 33° 06’ 19” 77° 00’ 09” 
45.  Pt 6070 6070 m 52-G-04 33° 04  33” 77° 02’  02” 
46.  Pt 6180 6180 m 52-G-04 33° 04  25” 77° 00’ 29” 
47.  Pt 6005 6005 m 52-G-04 33° 00’ 35” 77° 03’ 08” 
48.  Pt 6060 6060 m 52-G-04 33° 00’ 55” 77° 05’ 13” 
49.  Pt 6125 6121 m 52-G-05 33° 59’ 12” 77° 26’ 31” 
50.  Kangyarrag 6210 m 52-G-09 33° 45’ 09” 77° 33’ 07” 
51.  Kangyassay I 6401 m 52-G-10 33° 44’ 53” 77° 33’ 30” 
52.  Pt 6090-I 6069 m 52-G-10 33° 44’ 19” 77° 34’ 54” 
53.  Pt6265 6265 m 52-G-10 33° 43’ 31” 77° 34’ 28” 
54.  Pt 6340 6340 m 52-G-10 33° 43’ 04” 77° 33’ 40” 
55.  Pt 6280 6280 m 52-G-10 33° 43’ 31” 77° 33’ 03” 
56.  Pt 6090-II 6090 m 52-G-10 33° 44’ 24” 77° 32’ 18” 
57.  Pt 6225 6225 m 52-G-10 33° 42’ 08” 77° 35’ 29” 
58.  Pt 6000 6000 m 52-G-10 33° 42’ 43” 77° 35’ 05” 
59.  Pt 6190 6190 m 52-G-10 33° 42’ 23” 77° 34’ 13” 
60.  Pt 6230 6230 m 52-G-10 33° 42’ 15” 77° 32’ 45” 
61.  Pt 6170 6170 m 52-G-10 33° 40’ 24” 77° 32’ 49” 
62.  Pt 6025 6025 m 52-G-10 33° 40’ 23” 77° 34’ 50” 
63.  Pt 6040 6040 m 52-G-10 33° 38’ 43” 77° 35’ 00” 
64.  Pt 6030 6030 m 52-G-10 33° 37’ 31” 77° 35’ 44” 
65.  Pt 6120 6120 m 52-G-10 33° 36’ 36” 77° 35’ 54” 
66.  Khyam I 6101 m 52-G-10 33° 30’ 11” 77° 39’ 19” 
62 
 
67.  Khyam II 6100 m 52-G-10 33° 31’ 24” 77° 39’ 52  ” 
68.  Zara I 6130 m 52-G-11 33° 29’ 27” 77° 37’ 57” 
69.  Zara II 6000 m 52-G-11 33° 28’ 34” 77° 38’ 07” 
70.  Pt 6163 6163 m 52-K-03 33° 29’ 21” 78° 13’ 13” 
71.  Pt 6045 6045 m 52-K-03 33° 21’ 13” 78° 07’ 13” 
72.  Pt 6126 6126 m 52-K-03 33° 20’ 30” 78° 07’ 24” 
73.  Pt 6029 6029 m 52-K-03 33° 20’16” 78° 09’ 21” 
74.  Pt 6148 6148 m 52-K-03 33° 19’ 45” 78° 06’ 27” 
75.  Pt 6230 6230 m 52-K-03 33° 19’ 22” 78° 09’ 32” 
76.  Pt 6335 6335 m 52-K-03 33°  19’ 49” 78° 10’ 48” 
77.  Pt 6280 6280 m 52-K-03 33° 18’ 49” 78° 11’ 03” 
78.  Pt 6385 6385 m 52-K-03 33° 18’ 24” 78° 11’ 55” 
79.  Pt 6205 6205 m 52-K-03 33° 17’ 37” 78° 12’ 44” 
80.  Pt 6260 6260 m 52-K-03 33° 16’ 54” 78° 12’55” 
81.  Pt 6090 6090 m 52-K-03 33° 18’ 03” 78° 13’ 24” 
82.  Pt 6045 6045 m 52-K-03 33° 18’ 21” 78° 14’ 36” 
83.  Pt 6050 6050 m 52-K-03 33° 17’ 12” 78° 14’ 21” 
84.  Pt 6069 6069 m 52-K-04 33° 04’ 12” 78° 01’ 01” 
85.  Pt 6069 6069 m 52-K-04 33° 05’ 46” 78° 00’ 11” 
86.  Pt 6012 6012 m 52-K-04 33° 13’ 57” 78° 07’ 57” 
87.  Pt 6150 6150 m 52-K-04 33° 11’ 54” 78° 07’ 17” 
88.  Pt 6135 6135 m 52-K-04 33° 11’ 27” 78° 08’ 30” 
89.  Pt 6205 6205 m 52-K-04 33° 10’ 53 ” 78° 09’ 48” 
90.  Pt 6030 6030 m 52-K-04 33° 11’ 34” 78° 10’ 27” 
91.  Pt 6005 6005 m 52-K-04 33° 12’ 16” 78° 10’ 42” 
92.  Pt 6290 6290 m 52-K-04 33° 12’ 16” 78° 10’ 42” 
93.  Pt 6100 6100 m 52-K-04 33° 00’ 46” 78° 04’ 38” 
94.  Pt 6060 6060 m 52-K-04 33° 04’ 09” 78° 05’ 42” 
95.  Pt 6080 6080 m 52-K-04 33° 03’ 31” 78° 06’ 21” 
96.  Pt 6000 6000 m 52-K-04 33° 04’ 15” 78° 07’ 00” 
97.  Pt 6035 6035 m 52-K-04 33° 03’ 30” 78° 09’ 42” 
98.  Pt 6105 6105 m 52-K-04 33° 02’ 41” 78° 09’ 15” 
99.  Pt 6380 6380 m 52-K-04 33° 08’ 18” 78° 10’ 28” 
100.  Pt 6355 6355 m 52-K-04 33° 07’ 28” 78° 10’ 28” 
101.  Pt 6020 6020 m 52-K-04 33° 08’ 38” 78° 11’ 48” 
63 
 
102.  Pt 6130 6130 m 52-K-04 33° 09’ 35” 78° 12’ 15” 
103.  Pt 6094 6094 m 52-K-04 33° 09’ 45” 78° 12’ 19” 
104.  Pt 6100 6100 m 52-K-04 33° 07’ 26” 78° 13’ 00” 
 
******    
64 
 
Appendix  IX 
List of 113 Mountaineering and Trekking Peaks opened for mountaineering / trekking 
   
S.No PEAK OR HEIGHT 
IN METERS 
LONGITUDE LATITUDE REMARKS 
   HIMACHAL 
PRADESH 
   
1 CB-9 (6108) 77 27’ 32 34’ Manali- Batal (RH) -BC-C-I,C-
II,C-III and summit attempt  
2 CB-10 (Tara 
Pahar)(6227) 
77 28’ 32 36’ Manali-Chhatru-Chhota Dara -
Batal (RH) -BC-C-I,C-II and 
summit attempt 
3 CB-11 (5955) 77 31’ 32 22’ -do- 
4 CB-12 (6258) 77 33’ 32 20’ -do- 
5 CB-13 (6164) 77 33’ 32 21’ -do- 
6 CB-13A (6240) 77 33’ 32 21’ -do- 
7 CB-14 (6078) 77 34’ 32 32’ -do- 
8 CB-16 (5825) 77 31’ 32 19’ -do- 
9 CB-20 (5695) 77 31’ 32 24’ -do- 
10 CB-22 (5720) 77 33’ 32 24’ Manali-Chhatru-Chhota Dara -
Batal (RH)-Linder-BC-C-I,C-II 
and summit attempt 
11 CB-26 (5840) 77 29’ 32 20’ Batal (RH) -BC-C-I,C-II, and 
summit 
12 CB-31 (6096) 77 28’ 62 25’ Manali-Chhatru-Chhota Dara -
Batal (RH) -BC-C-I,C-II and 
summit  
13 CB-32 (5639) 77 27’ 32 26’ -do- 
14 CB-33 (Minar)(6185) 77 29’ 32 28’ Batal (RH)-Dekka-BC-C-I,C-II, 
and summit 
15 CB-34 (5635) 77 31’ 32 28’ -do- 
16 CB-35 (5568) 77 30’ 32 29’ Manali- Batal (RH) -BC-C-I,C-
II, and summit  
17 Unnamed Peak (5510) 77 17’ 32 28’ 
 
Manali- Darcha-Jispa-BC-C-
I,C-II, and summit  
18 Unnamed Peak (5852) 77 14’ 32 28’ -do- 
19 Unnamed Peak (5765) 77 09’ 32 33’ -do- 
20 Unnamed Peak (5860) 77 38’ 32 15’ Manali- Grampho 
Chhatru(RH)-Jitang- Puti 
Runishigri (BC) -C-I and 
summit attempt 
21 Devachan (6265) 77 33’ 32 14’ Kulu- Manikaran (RH) - Tos 
Saram- Base Camp -C-I, C -II 
and C-III and summit attempt 
65 
 
22 Papsura (6440) 77 33’ 32 12’ Manali (RH) -Manikaran (RH) - 
Tos(Vill)- Shamshi-sari-BC-
ABC-C-I,C-II and C -III and 
summit attempt 
23 Whitae Sai l 
(Dharansura (6420) 
77 34’ 32 12’ Kulu (RH) -Manikaran (RH) - 
Tos(Vill)- Shamshi-sari-BC-
ABC-C-I,C-II and C -III and 
summit attempt 
24 Unnamed Peak (5790) 77 38’ 32 14’ Manali-Grampho- 
Chhatru(RH)-Dhhota Dara -
BC,C-I,C-II and summit 
attempt 
25 Tiger Toth (5980) 77 36’ 32 18’ Manali-Batal Base Camp -C-
I,C-II,C-III and summit attempt 
26 Unnamed Peak(5360) 77 47’ 32 08’ 
 
Batal-Karacha-Barasigri 
Glacier-C-I,C-IIand summit 
attempt 
27 Unnamed Peak (6090) 77 42’ 32 14’ Grampho-Chhota Dara -Batal 
(HR)- Karcha Nala-BC-C-I,C-II 
and summit attempt 
28 Indra San (6223) 77 24’ 31 12’ Manali (RH) -Jagatsukh (RH) -
Achhika-Seri-Tainta-BC-C-I,C-
II,C-III,C-IV and summit 
attempt 
29 Deo Tibba(6001) 77 23’ 32 11’ Manali (RH) -Jagatsukh (RH) -
Achhika-Seri-Tainta-BC-C-I,C-
II,  (Duhangan col), C -III, and 
summit attempt 
30 Alirathni Tibba(5470) 77 26’ 32 05’ Kuku (RH) -Malansa BC -C-I, 
C-II and summit attempt 
31 Hanuman 
TIbba(5932) 
77 02’ 32 20’ Manali-Solang-Dhundi (RH) -
Beas Kun BC-ABC 
32 Manali(5640) 77 03’ 32 24’ Dhundi (RH)-Beas Kund (BC) -
C-I, C-II and summit attempt 
33 Makerbeh(6069) 77 04’ 32 25’ Mandi – Palchan- Dhundi 
(RH)- Beas Kund BC - C-I, C -
II, C- III and summit attempt 
34 Shikarbeh(6200) 77 03’ 32 23’ -do- 
35 Behali Jot(6245) 76 35’ 32 50’ Udaipur (RH) – Margaon- BC 
(Tal Go) c - II and summit 
attempt 
36 Menthosa(6443) 76 42’ 32 55’ Manali – Rohtang pass- Tandi- 
Udhaipur (RH) - Niyar Mallah - 
Urgos vill (last vill) BC -C-I, C-
II and summit attempt 
37 Phabrang(6172) 76 47’ 32 44’ -do- 
38 Unnamed Peak(5472) 76 47’ 31 44’ Manali- Tandi- Udaipur- Miyar 
Nallah- Karpat BC -C-I, C -II 
and summit attempt 
66 
 
39 Unnamed Peak (5598) 
 
76 48’ 32 46’ Manali- Tandi- Udaipur- Miyar 
Nallah- Karpat BC -C-I, C -II 
and summit attempt 
40 Unnamed Peak (5666) 76 50’ 62 45’ Urgas- Chaliry forest -Gangupa 
Nalah- BC-C-I, C -II then 
summit 
41 Kharcha Parbat  
(6270) 
77 43’ 32 21’ Manali Batal (RH) - BC-ABC-
C-I- summit camp and attempt 
to summit 
42 Consolation Peak 77 23’ 32 12’ Kulu- Manali (RH) - Chikka- 
Chandertal- BC-C-II then 
summit 
43 Hanuman Tibba I 
(5932) 
77 02’ 32 21’ Manali- Dhundi- Beaskund- 
BC-C-I, C-II then summit 
44 Hanuman TIbba -II 
(5366) 
77 02’ 32 21’ -do- 
JAMMU &  KASHMIR 
45 Nun (7135) 76  01’ 33  59’ (East- Leh-Kargil- Panikhar- 
Gulmotongas (RH)- BC-C-I, C-
II,C-III and summit attempt 
46 Kun  (7077) 76  03’ 34  01’ Leh- Kargil-Panikhar- 
Gulmotongas (RH) -BC-C-I, C -
II, C-III and summit attempt 
47 Pinnacle (6955) 76 05’ 34 01’ -do- 
48 White Nmeedle 
(6420) 
76 04’ 33 59’ -do- 
49 Bobang (5971) 76 08’ 33 25’ Leh- Harpass-Kijai Nala -
Nagdal Lake-C- I, C-II summit 
attempt 
50 Z-2 peak (6152) 76 12’ 33 47’ Kargil- gulmotongas- 
Ringdoom- Lalung Glacier - 
BC-C-I, C-II then summit 
51 Z-3 Hill (6270) 76 19’ 33 42’ Kargil- Gulmotongas- Haskira 
Glacier- C- I, C-II then summit 
52 Z-I (6155) 76 08’ 33 56’ -do- 
53 Z-8 (6050) 76 20’ 33 50’ -do- 
54 Kangri (5508) 77 28’ 34 00’ Leh- Stock Vill - (RH)- BC-
ABC- C-I, C -II and summit 
attempt 
55 Kangri (5900) 77 29’ 33 57’ -do- 
56 Tanak Peak (5948) 76 06’ 33 48’ Kargil- (BC)-Sanku-Pan (RH) 
to  BC-C-I, C-II then summit 
57 Shingrugo 76 58’ 33 28’ Kargil- Padam- Pibting C -I, C -
II then summit 
58 Yan (6230) 76 04’ 33 00’ Leh (RH) - Gya- Gyamarnala- 
Kongmarule- Nimaling- Shang- 
Shangphy- BC-ABC then 
summit 
67 
 
UTTARAKHAND 
59 Panwali Dwar(6663) 79 57’ 30 17’ Song (RH) – Khati- Dwalio- 
Phukia- Base Camp - C-I, C - II 
and summit attempt 
60 Nanda Devi 
East(7437) 
79 59’ 30 21’ Munsyari (RH) - Lilam- Martoli 
(Vill)- Nasanpatti Bhadeligwar 
BC-C-I, C -II, C -III and summit 
attempt 
61 Nandakhat(6545) 79 58’ 30 18’ Bharari  (RH) Loharkhet-  Khati - 
Dwali- (Vill)- Base Camp C-I, C- 
II, C-III summit attempt  
62 Mrigthuni(6855) 79 49’ 30 17’ -do- 
63 Maiktoli(6803) 79 52’ 30 16’ -do- 
64 Trishul-I(7120) 79 46’ 30 18’ Ghat (RH) – Sitel- Sutol- Lat 
Kopri-Chandniya Ghat - BC-C-I, 
C-II, C-III summit attempt 
65 Trishul-II(6690) 79 46’ 30 17’ -do- 
66 Trishul-III(6008) 79 48’ 30 17’ -do- 
67 Tharkot (6099) 79 49’ 30 13’ Bharari  (RH) - Khati via 
Dhakuri- Jatolia- Sunder- Dunga- 
Sukhran Cave  BC C -I, C- II, C-
III and summit attempt 
68 Nanda Ghunti(6390) 79 43’ 30 20’ Debal (RH) – Hemkund (BC) - 
Roopkund- Attempt Nanda ghunti 
via the Ronti Saddle 
69 Ronti(6063) 79 43’ 30 22’ -do- 
70 Bhanoti(5645) 79 50’ 30 12’ Bharari  (RH) - Loharkhet- 
Dhakuri - Khati (Vill) - Base 
Camp - C-I, C - II,  and summit 
attempt 
71 Baljuri(5922) 79 57’ 30 15’ Bharari  (RH) - Loharkhet- 
Dhakuri - Khati (Vill) - Base 
Camp - C-I, C - II, C -III and 
summit attempt 
72 Nanda Kot(6861) 80 04’ 30 16’ Song (RH) Loharkhet - Dhakuri 
Pass- Khati (Vill)- Dwali- C-I, C- 
II and summit attempt  
73 Lepsa Dhura(5913) 80 04’ 30 14’ -do- 
74 Unnamed Peak 77 16’ 32 32’ Domphu Gompa (RH) - Khoksar 
Nai Tempala Pass (BC) - CI 
summit attempt 
75 Bara sukha 78 36’ 31 04’ Uttarkashi- Dunga- Pura (RH) - 
Tangua- Rania- Base Camp- C- I 
& C-II then summit attempt 
76 Rudugaira(5819) 78 52’ 30 56’ Gangotri (RH) – Tapovan (BC) 
then summit 
68 
 
77 Swargtrohini-I(6252) 78 30’ 31 06’ Deherdun- Natwar & Sansiri 
(RH)- Ta:ial- Osala- BC, BC -I 
and summit attempt 
78 Swargtrohini-II(6278) 78 30’ 31 06’ -do- 
79 Banderpunchi(6320) 78 33’ 31 00’ -do- 
80 Srikanth(6133) 78 48’ 30 57’ Uttarkashi- Bhatwari- Sukki 
(RH)- Hasil- alsong Tel Gad 
Nullah- BC-I, BC -II and summit 
attempt 
81 Gangotri-I(6672) 78 50’ 30 55’ Gangotri (RH) - Ruduagira 
Nallah- BC- C-I - C-II and 
summit attempt 
82 Gangotri-II(6590) 78 51’ 30 54’ -do- 
83 Gangotri-III(6577) 78 52’ 30 48’ -do- 
84 Joanali(6632) 78 51’ 30 52’ -do- 
85 Jogin-I(6465) 78 55’ 60 52’ -do- 
86 Jogin-II(6342) 78 55’ 30 53’ Gangotri (RH)- Ruduagira 
Nallah- BC- C-I - C-II and 
summit attempt 
87 Jogin-III(6166) 78 56’ 30 52’ -do- 
88 Thalaysagar(6964) 78 59’ 30 51’ -do- 
89 Manda(6568) 79 00’ 59 55’ Gangotri-Chirbas- BC- I, BC -II 
and summit attempt 
90 Meru North(6450) 79 02’ 59 52’ Gangotri-Chirbas- Gaumukh- 
Tapovan BC - I, BC -II and 
summit attempt 
91 Meru East(6261) 79 02’ 29 52’ -do- 
92 Kirti Stambh(6270) 79 01’ 30 49’ Gangotri-Chirbas- Gaumukh- 
BC- I, BC-II and summit attempt 
93 Bhatekhunta(6578) 79 02’ 30 48’ -do- 
94 Kedarnath(6962) 79 04’ 30 47’ -do- 
95 Kedr Dome(6830) 79 04’ 30 48’ -do- 
96 Karcha Kund(6632) 79 07’ 30 46’ -do- 
97 Shivling(6543) 79 04’ 30 52’ Gangotri- Gaumukh- Nandaban- 
BC- I, BC-II and summit attempt 
98 Bhagirath-I(6856) 79 09’ 30 51’ -do- 
99 Bhagirath-II(6512) 79 09’ 30 51’ -do- 
100 Bhagirath-III(6454) 79 08’ 30 52’ -do- 
101 Vasuki Parhal(6792) 79 10’ 30 52’ -do- 
102 Satopaqnth(7075) 79 13’ 30 50’ -do- 
 
69 
 
103 Sudarshan 
Parbat(6507) 
79 05’ 30 58’ Gangtori- Gaumikh- BC-I, BC -II 
and summit attempt 
104 Changabang(6866) 79 55’ 30 29’ Joshimath (RH)- Lata Vill. Belta - 
Latakhark- Dibrugatta- Upper 
Deodi- BC- C-I, C-II and summit 
attempt 
105 Nilkantha(6597) 79 24’ 30 43’ Joshimath- Badrinath- BC-I and 
summit attempt 
106 Chaukhamba-I(7886) 79 15’ 30 43’ Joshimath- Mana  Vill- BC-I, BC-
II, BC-III and summit attempt 
107 Chaukhamba-II(7070) 79 15’ 30 43’ -do- 
108 Chaukhamba-
III(6995) 
79 15’ 30 43’ -do- 
109 Chaukhamba-
IV(6854) 
79 15’ 30 43’ -do- 
110 Changuch(6322) 80 02 30 17’ Bharari (RH) - Loharkhet- Khati- 
Dwali (Vill)- Base Camp-C-I, C-
II and summit attempt 
 
TREKKING PEAKS 
111 Stok Kangri(6150) 77 28’ 33 59’ Leh-Stok Vill(RH) -TC-II-BC-
C-I-C-II and summit attempt 
112 Ladakhi(H.P) 77 03’ 32 22’ Dhundi (RH) -Beas Kund(BC) -
AB-C-I and summit attempt 
113 Friendship (6284) 77 12’ 32 23’ Dhundi (RH) -Beas Kund(BC) -
ABC-C-I and summit attempt 
 
Note: 
 
1. Prior permission of the Central Government is not required for climbing the above mentioned 
peaks.  However, if the expedition team includes nationals of China, Pakistan, Afghanistan and 
Bangladesh, prior permission of the Central Government will be required. 
 
2. This is also subject to Indian Mountaineering Foundation specifying the routes, attach liaison 
officer and impose such restrictions as it may deem necessary. 
 
 
********   
 
  
70 
 
Appendix  -  X 
List  I 
LIST OF RECOGNISED PROTESTANT SOCIETIES 
1. American Reformed Mission(Reformed Church of America). 
2. American Friends Mission (Friends Foreign Missionary Society) 
3. American Lutheran Church Mission (Columbia, Ohio). 
4. The United Church Board for World Ministries. 
5. The United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. Commission on Ecumenical Mission and 
relations. 
6. Assemblies of God Mission (Springfield, Mission). 
7. Ceylon and India General Mission. 
8. Church of the Nazarence. 
9. Christian and Missionary Alliance. 
10. Free Methodist Mission. 
11. National Holiness Missionary Society. 
12. Protestant Episcopal Church Mission. 
13. Reformed  Presbyterian Mission. 
14. Scandinavian Alliance Mission of N. America. 
15. United Lutheran Church Mission 
16. American Wesleyan Methodist Mission 
17. United Christian Missionary Society. 
18. National Council of Y.M.C.A. 
19. American Advent Christian Mission. 
20. American Baptist Foreign Missionary Society. 
21. American Memnonite Brethern Mission  
22. Board of American Memnonite Mission. 
23. General Conference of Momnonite Mission of N. America. 
24. United Missionary Society Memnonite Brethern in Christ. 
25. General Brotherhood Board Church of the Brethren. 
26. Associated Reformed Presbyterian Mission. 
27. Baptist General Conference Mission. 
28. Christian Mission, Mahoba. 
29. Methodist Church in South Asia. 
30. Vellore Christian Medical College Board. 
31. Basel Evangelical Mission. 
32. Danish Mission Society of Heelerup. 
33. West Jeypore Missionary Society (Schleswing-Holesteir). 
34. Evangelical National Missionary Society of Stockholm (Evangelical  Fosterlands Stiffen) 
35. Liepzing Evangelical Lugheran Mission. 
36. Santhal Missions of the Northern Churches Danish Board. 
37. Santhal Missions of the Northern Churches Norwegian Board. 
38. Swedish Missionary Society (Svensha Mission for bunder) 
39. Women’s Missionary Society (Kunhliga Mission Arbetare) 
40. Church of Sweden Mission (Svensha Kyrkans Mission) 
41. Gossner Missionary Society. 
42. Norwegian Free Evangelical Mission. 
43. Swedish Alliance Mission (Svenska Alliansmissioner) 
44. Swedish Baptist  Mission 
45. Memnonite Board of Missions and Charities. 
71 
 
46. Women’s Home and Foreign Missionary Society of Advent Christian  
Denomination. 
47. General Conference of the Seventh Day Adventists. 
48. Missouri Lutheran Evangelical India Mission.       
 
List II 
LIST OF RECOGNISED CATHOLIC SOCIETIES 
1. Society of Jesus. 
2. Congregation of the Daughters of the Cross, Liege. 
3. Congregation of the Sisters of Charity, Ghent. 
4. Congregation  of the Missionary Canonesses of St. Augustine. 
5. Franciscan Sisters of St. Mary of the Angels, Angers. 
6. Institute of Natre Dame des Missions, Deal. 
7. Monastery of the Good Shephered, Angers.  
8. Society of the Sisters of Jesus and Mary. 
9. Institute of Foreign Missions, Milan.  
10. Franciscan Missionaries of Mary. 
11. Daughters of the Cross, Chavanod. 
12. Congregation of the Missionaries of St. Francis of Sales, Annecy.  
13. Congregation of Sisters of St. Hoseph of Chamberty. 
14. Congregation of Sisters of St. Hoseph, Annecy. 
15. Order of Discalced Carmelities. 
16. Society of the Holy Cross 
17. Society for Foreign Missions, Paris. 
18. Society of Little Sisters of the Poor, France. 
19. Society of the Daughters of St. Francis of Sales. 
20. Society of St. Ann ‘Della Providenza” Turin. 
21. The silvestrine Congregation of the Order of St. Banedict. 
22. The Salesian Congregation of Don Dosco, Turin. 
23. The Society of the Sisters of St. Anns, Institute Baldegg, Lucerne. 
24. Missionary Borthers of St. Francis of Assisi. 
25. Congregation of the Missions, Rue de Sevres, Paris. 
26. Congregation of the Sisters of St. Joseph de Cluny Rue Mechain, Paris. 
27. The  Society of the Daughters of Charity Canossian. 
28. Order of Premonstratensians.  
29. Congregation of the Sisters of St. Joseph de Tarses, Hautes Pyreness France. 
30. Congregation OF THE Ursulines of Thildonck (Belgium). 
31. Brothers of St. Gabriel. 
32. St. Joseph's Society for Foreign Missions. 
33. Order of the Friars Minor Capuchin. 
34. Sisters of St. Joseph of Lyons. 
35. Sisters of St. Charles. 
36. Community of the Poor Clarisses. 
37. The Society of the Divine World. 
38. The Order of Annons Regular of St. Augustine. 
39. Society of the Sisters of Mary Immaculate. 
40. The Society of the Franciscan Nuns of the perpetual (Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament). 
41. Order of the most Holy Savior. 
72 
 
42. The Pious Society of St. Paul. 
43. The Sisters of Charity of Nazareth. 
44. Instt. Of the Blessed Virgin Mary. 
45. Presentation Nuns. 
46. Congregation of Irish Christian Brothers. 
47. Sisters of the Holy Cross, Menzingen, Switzerland. 
48. Catechist Missionaries Sisters of Mary Immaculate. 
49. Brothers of St. Patrick. 
50. Society of the Sacred Heart. 
51. the Redemptorist Fathers. 
52. Congregation of Daughters of the Sacred Heart (Malta). 
53. Congregation of Sisters of Charity, Milan. 
54. Society of the Adoration Nuns of Madrid. 
55. Missionaries de Cristo Jesus. 
56. Congregation of Franciscan Sisters in India. 
57. Society of the "Queen of the Apostles". 
58. Society of Franciscans Servant of Mary, Blosis, France. 
59. Medical Sisters Missionary. 
60. Missionary Sisters Servants of the Holy Ghost. 
61. Little Sisters of St. Francis Angers, France. 
62. Society of Mary, Jesus and Joseph, Hertogenbosch. 
63. Sisters of St. Francis. 
64. Society of the Catholic Medical Missionary. 
65. Sisters of St. Joseph, St. Jean de Maurinne, Savoie, Franco. 
*****   