UK VISA REQUIREMENTS 
ALL nationals of the countries and territories listed below in red (underlined) need visas to enter or transit the UK. 
ALL nationals of the countries and territories listed below in black need visas to enter or transit the UK landside.  
   ALL visa nationals may transit the UK without a visa (TWOV) in certain circumstances. Please see below for details.  
 
UK visas may now be in either physical form, or a digital eVisa. If a passenger holds a digital eVisa, the receipt of a ‘0A - Valid Permission to Travel Found’ response message,  
via iAPI messaging, Direct REST or web user interfaces is satisfactory evidence of a passenger’s permission to travel to the UK. 
  
Afghanistan 
Albania 
Algeria 
Angola 
Armenia 
Azerbaijan 
Bangladesh 
Belarus 
Benin 
Bhutan 
Bolivia 
Bosnia and  
     Herzegovina 
Botswana  
Burkina Faso 
Burundi 
Cambodia 
Cameroon 
Cape Verde 
Central African  
     Republic 
Chad 
China (People’s  
     Republic of) (1) 
Colombia  
Comoros 
 
Congo  
Congo Dem.  
     Republic 
Cuba 
Cyprus northern 
     part of (2) 
Djibouti 
Dominica  
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
Egypt 
El Salvador  
Equatorial Guinea 
Eritrea 
Eswatini (Swaziland) 
Ethiopia 
Fiji 
Gabon 
Gambia 
Georgia  
Ghana 
Guinea 
Guinea-Bissau 
Haiti 
Honduras  
 
India (3) 
Indonesia  
Iran 
Iraq 
Ivory Coast 
Jamaica 
Jordan 
Kazakhstan 
Kenya 
Korea (Dem.  
     People’s Republic) 
Kosovo 
Kyrgyzstan 
Laos 
Lebanon 
Lesotho 
Liberia 
Libya 
Madagascar  
Malawi 
Mali 
Mauritania 
Moldova 
Mongolia 
Montenegro 
 
Morocco 
Mozambique 
Myanmar (Burma) 
Namibia  
Nepal 
Niger 
Nigeria 
North Macedonia  
Pakistan 
Palestine 
Philippines 
Russia  
Rwanda 
Sao Tome e  
     Principe 
Senegal 
Serbia  
Sierra Leone 
Somalia (2) 
South Africa (7)  
South Sudan 
Sri Lanka 
Sudan 
Surinam 
 
Syria (6) 
Taiwan (4) 
Tajikistan 
Tanzania 
Thailand 
Timor–Leste  
Togo 
Trinidad and 
Tobago 
Tunisia 
Turkey (7) 
Turkmenistan 
Uganda 
Ukraine 
Uzbekistan  
Venezuela (non  
     biometric) 
Venezuela  
     (biometric) 
Vanuatu  
Vietnam (5) 
Yemen 
Zambia 
Zimbabwe                        
Please note, ETA eligible countries and requirements are not listed here. 
Guidance regarding ETA (Electronic Travel Authorisation) can be found here: 
www.gov.uk/electronictravelauthorisation 
 
Airside Transit (where available): 
Airside transit passengers are those who do not need to change airports and do not need to 
pass through the UK border. Passengers cannot transit AIRSIDE to the Republic of Ireland 
or anywhere within the common travel area. 
 
Transit without visa (TWOV) 
ALL visa nationals seeking to transit the United Kingdom AIRSIDE without a visa must:  
(i) arrive and depart by air; and 
(ii) have a confirmed onward flight departing the same day from the same airport; and  
(iii) hold the correct documents for their destination (e.g. a visa for that country if required) 
 
Nationals of the countries shown in RED (underlined) above need a visa to transit 
AIRSIDE unless they hold one of the following: 
(i) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA (whether or not 
the holder is travelling to or from these countries); or 
(ii) a visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA as part of a 
reasonable journey FROM the country in respect of which the visa is held and it is 
less than 6 months since the holder last entered that country with a valid entry visa. 
(iii) a valid permanent residence permit issued by: 
(a) Australia 
(b) Canada, issued after 28 June 2002 
(c) New Zealand 
(d) USA issued after 21 April 1998; or a valid US Immigrant visa endorsed with a 
US arrival stamp  (a wet-ink/ADIT stamp version will NOT be accepted by UK 
border control); or an expired I -551 Permanent Residence card provided it is 
accompanied by a valid I -797 letter authorising extension; or a standalone US 
Immigration Form 155A/155B (attached to a sealed brown envelope); or 
(iv) a valid common format residence permit issued by an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(v) a valid common format category D visa for entry to an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vi) a valid Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS (in order to transit to a 
destination other than the Republic of Ireland or the Common Travel Area); or 
(vii) a valid Sch engen Approved D estination Scheme (ADS) group tourism visa where 
the holder is travelling TO the country that issued it; or 
(viii) a valid airline ticket FROM the Schengen area; provided the holder can demonstrate 
they entered there no more than 30 days previously on the basis of a valid Schengen 
ADS visa. 
NB: Other countries’ e-visas or e-residence permits are not acceptable unless the airline is 
able to verify it with the issuing country.     
 
 
 
 
 
Landside Transit: 
Landside transit passengers are those who need or wish to pass through the UK border and 
enter the UK (e.g. to change airport, to collect baggage or arrive at airports where no airside 
transfer is possible)  
 
Transit without visa (TWOV)  
ALL visa nationals seeking to transit the United Kingdom LANDSIDE without a visa must:  
(iv) arrive and depart by air; and 
(v) have a confirmed onward flight that departs before 23:59hrs the following day; and  
(vi) hold the correct documents for their destination (e.g. a visa for that country if required) 
 
Nationals of ALL countries (RED [underlined] and BLACK above) need a visa to 
transit LANDSIDE unless they hold one of the following: 
(i) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Ca nada, New Zealand or the USA and a valid 
airline ticket via the UK as part of a reasonable journey TO that country; or 
(ii) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA and a valid 
airline ticket via the UK as part of a reasonable journey FROM that country; or 
(iii) a visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA as part of a 
reasonable journey FROM the country in respect of which the visa is held and it is 
less than 6 months since the holder last entered that country with a valid entry visa; 
or 
(iv) a valid permanent residence permit issued by: 
(a) Australia 
(b) Canada, issued after 28 June 2002 
(c) New Zealand 
(d) USA issued after 21 April 1998; or a valid US Immigrant visa  endorsed with a 
US arrival stamp  (a wet-ink/ADIT stamp version will NOT be accepted by UK 
border control); or an expired I -551 Permanent Residence card provided it is 
accompanied by a valid I -797 letter authorising extension; or a standalone US 
Immigration Form 155A/155B (attached to a sealed brown envelope); or 
(v) a valid common format residence permit issued by an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vi) a valid common format category D visa for entry to an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vii) a valid Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS and travelling TO the Republic 
of Ireland; or 
(viii)        an Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS and travelling FROM the Republic  
               of Ireland provided it is less than 3 months since the holder last entered there. 
  NB: Other countries’ e-visas or e-residence permits are NOT acceptable for landside transit. 
 
 
 
UK permanent residents 
If a visa national is permanently resident in the UK they do not need a visa, as long as they return to the UK within two years of their last departure. 
Passengers with the right of abode in the UK 
If a visa national has a ‘certificate of entitlement to the right of abode’ label in their valid passport they do not need a visa. 
Holders of non-national and refugee travel documents 
If the passenger holds a refugee travel document issued by the UK they do not need a visa. If the passenger holds any other non-national or refugee travel document they need a visa to enter the UK. 
Whether holders of non -national and refugee travel documents require a direct airside transit visa ( DATV) depends on their original nationality, and whether they qualify for one of the exemptions 
listed above. Persons recognised as stateless under the 1954 UN Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons are not required to hold a DATV and may transit airside without a visa. 
Seafarer 
A seafarer travelling on duty, who is a visa national (including those in transit through the UK) does not need a visa if they hold a valid seafarer’s book issued by one of these countries  which also 
contains a statement that it is issued under ILO108  (or convention of 1958)  or ILO185, having previously ratified ILO108  (or convention of 2003 ): Algeria, Anguilla, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bermuda, Brazil, British Virgin Isles, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Ghana, 
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea -Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, Ind ia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy , Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,  Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova 
(Republic of), Montserrat, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federatio n, Seychelles, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka,  St Lucia, St Vincent and  the 
Grenadines, Sweden, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom  (including the Falkland  Islands and Gibraltar), Uruguay. The seafarer does not need to be a national  of the 
country that issued the document.  
 
 
 
 
 Carrier Support Hub lines are for use by carriers and operators only. “Check if a passenger needs a UK visa service” to determine if a passenger requires a visa, here:  
Check if you need a UK visa - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) 
 
 
1. Diplomatic or Service passport holders  may transit 
airside without a visa. 
2. Passport not recognised by HM Government – visa 
should be issued on a Form for Affixing a Visa (FAV). 
3. Diplomatic or official passport holders may transit 
without a visa. 
4. Passports that include a personal ID number on the 
biodata page are exempt from the visa requirement. 
5. Diplomatic or Official passport holders may transit 
airside without a visa. 
6. Holders may not use a B1/B2 USA visa to transit the 
UK. 
7. Diplomatic passport holders may transit airside 
without a visa. 
 
 
 
 
 
The decision to allow a passenger to transit without a visa (TWOV) under the scheme is decided by an immigration officer at the UK border 
Carriers and operators can seek advice about a passenger’s permission to travel, by calling the UK Border Force Carrier Support Hub 
 
    Produced by: CARRIERS LIAISON SECTION, HOME OFFICE                               This poster was last updated November 2025 
