 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Immigration Rules 
Appendix V 
 
Immigration Rules for visitors    
 
This is a consolidated version of the current Immigration Rules. 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX V: immigration Rules for visitors    
  
 Introduction 
 
A visitor is a person who is coming to the UK, usually for up to six months, for a 
temporary purpose, for example as a tourist, to visit friends or family or to carry out a 
business activity.  
 
Visitors cannot work or study in the UK unless this is allowed by the permitted 
activities that are set out in these Visitor Rules.   
 
Each visitor must meet the requirements of these Visitor Rules, even if they are 
travelling as, for example, a family group, a tour group or a school party. 
 
Applications are decided based on the information provided by the applicant and any 
other relevant circumstances at the date of decision. 
 
Definitions of terms and phrases used in these Visitor Rules are in Appendix 1. 
Defined words are in italics. 
 
PART V1. Entry to the UK 
  
Types of permission to enter the UK 
 
V  1.1 A person who wishes to enter the UK as a visitor must have permission to 
do so. That permission may be granted as a visit visa or as leave to enter.   
 
Who needs a visit visa  
 
V  1.2  A visa national must obtain a visit visa before they arrive in the UK. 
Appendix 2 sets out who is a visa national. A visa national who arrives in 
the UK without a visit visa will be refused leave to enter.  
 
V  1.3 A non-visa national may apply for a visit visa, but is not required to unless 
they are:  
(a) visiting the UK to marry or to form a civil partnership, or to give notice 
of this; or  
(b) seeking to visit the UK for more than 6 months.   
  
Who can apply for leave to enter on arrival 
 
V  1.4 A non-visa national may apply for leave to enter as a visitor on arrival at the 
UK border, unless V 1.3 (a) or (b) applies.     
 
 
Types and lengths of visit visa and leave to enter or remain 
 
V  1.5 There are four types of visitor routes which depend on the purpose of the 
visit: 
 
 Types of 
visit 
visa/Leave to 
enter or 
remain 
Visitors of this type 
can: 
The maximum length of stay that 
can be granted for each type of 
visitor: 
(a) Visit 
(standard) 
Do the permitted 
activities in Appendix 3 
except visitors entering 
under the Approved 
Destination Status 
agreement who may 
only do the activities in 
paragraph 3 of 
Appendix 3 to these 
Rules; 
up to 6 months, except: 
(i) a visitor who is coming to the UK 
for private medical treatment may be 
granted a visit visa of up to 11 
months; or  
(ii) an academic, who is employed by 
an overseas institution and is 
carrying out the specific permitted 
activities paragraph 12 of Appendix 
3,of these Rules, along with their 
spouse or partner and children, may 
be granted a visit visa of up to 12 
months; or 
(iii) a visitor under the Approved 
Destination Status Agreement (ADS 
Agreement) may be granted a visit 
visa for a period of up to 30 days. 
(b) Marriage / 
civil 
partnership 
visit 
Visit to marry or to form 
a civil partnership, or to 
give notice of this, in the 
UK, and do the 
permitted activities in 
Appendix 3; 
up to 6 months. 
(c) Permitted 
Paid 
Engagements 
(PPE) visit 
Do the paid 
engagements in 
Appendix 4 and  do the 
permitted activities in 
Appendix 3; 
up to 1 month. 
(d) Transit visit Transit the UK. up to 48 hours, except for leave to 
enter as a transit visitor under the  
Transit Without Visa Scheme which 
may be granted until 23:59 hours on 
the next day after the day the 
applicant arrived. 
 
V  1.6 Within the period for which the visit visa is valid, a visitor may enter and 
leave the UK multiple times, unless the visit visa is endorsed as a single- or 
dual-entry visa. 
 
PART V2. Making an application for a visit visa  
 
How to apply for a visit visa 
 
V  2.1 An application for a visit visa must be made while the applicant is outside 
the UK.  
 
V  2.2 To apply for a visit visa the applicant must:  
(a) complete the online application process on the visas and immigration 
pages of the gov.uk website; and  
(b) pay any fee that applies; and   
(c) provide their biometrics if required; and  
(d) provide a valid travel document. 
Where the online application process is not available, the applicant must 
follow the instructions provided by the local visa post or application centre 
on how to make an application. 
 
Date of application  
 
V  2.3 An application for a visit visa is made on the date on which the fee is paid.   
 
V  2.4 Where a fee is not required, the date of application is the date on which the 
application is submitted online.   
 
V  2.5 Where a fee is not required and an online application is not available, the 
date of application is the date on which the paper application form is 
received by the relevant visa post or application centre.  
 
 
Withdrawing an application and return of a travel document 
 
V  2.6 An applicant may withdraw their application at any time before a decision is 
made on it.  The request must be made in writing or email to the visa post 
or application centre where the application was submitted. When notice of 
withdrawal is received no decision will be made on the application and the 
applicant’s travel document and any other documents will be returned.  The 
fee will not be refunded. 
 
V  2.7 A request from an applicant for return of their travel document after an 
application has been submitted must be made in writing or email to the visa 
post or application centre where the application was submitted.  It  will be 
treated as a notice of withdrawal of the application, unless the visa post 
states otherwise. 
 
PART V3. SUITABILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL VISITORS  
  
V  3.1 This Part applies to all applications for visit visas, leave to enter, and an 
extension of stay as a visitor except where explicitly stated otherwise. 
 
Not conducive to the public good: exclusion and deportation 
 
V  3.2 An application will be refused if: 
(a) the Secretary of State has personally directed that the applicant’s 
exclusion from the UK is conducive to the public good; or 
(b) the applicant is currently the subject of a deportation order or a 
decision to make a deportation order. 
 
V  3.3 An application will be refused if the decision maker believes that exclusion 
of the applicant from the UK is conducive to the public good because, for 
example, the applicant's conduct (including convictions which do not fall 
within paragraph V 3.4), character, associations, or other reasons, make it 
undesirable to grant their application. 
 
Not conducive to the public good: criminal convictions, etc.  
 
V 3.4 An application (except for an application for an extension of stay as a 
visitor) will be refused if the applicant has been convicted of a criminal 
offence for which they have been sentenced to a period of imprisonment of:  
(a) at least 4 years; or 
(b) between 12 months and 4 years, unless at least 10 years have 
passed since the end of the sentence; or 
(c) less than 12 months, unless at least 5 years has passed since the end 
of the sentence. 
Where this paragraph applies, it will only be in exceptional circumstances that the 
public interest in maintaining refusal will be outweighed by compelling factors. 
 
V  3.5 An application will normally be refused if: 
(a) within the period of 12 months before the application is decided, the 
applicant has been convicted of or admitted an offence for which they 
received a non-custodial sentence or out of court disposal that is 
recorded on their criminal record (except for an application for an 
extension of stay as a visitor); or 
(b) in the view of the Secretary of State the applicant’s offending has 
caused serious harm; or 
(c) in the view of the Secretary of State the applicant is a persistent 
offender who shows a particular disregard for the law. 
 
False information in relation to an application 
 
V  3.6 An applicant will be refused where:  
(a) false representations have been made or false documents or 
information have been submitted (whether or not material to the 
application, and whether or not to the applicant's knowledge); or  
(b) material facts have not been disclosed, 
in relation to their application or in order to obtain documents from the 
Secretary of State or a third party provided in support of their application. 
 
Breaches of UK immigration laws 
 
V  3.7 An applicant will be refused: 
(a) if the applicant previously breached UK immigration laws as described 
at V 3.9; and 
(b) if the applicant is outside the UK, the application is made within the 
relevant re-entry ban time period in V 3.10 (which time period is 
relevant will depend on the manner in which the applicant left the UK). 
 
V  3.8 If the applicant has previously breached UK immigration laws but is outside 
the relevant re-entry ban time period the application will normally be 
refused if there are other aggravating circumstances, such as a failure to 
cooperate with immigration control or enforcement processes.  This applies 
even where the applicant has overstayed for 90 days or less and left 
voluntarily and not at public expense. 
 
V  3.9 An applicant, when aged 18 years or over, breached the UK’s immigration 
laws: 
(a) by overstaying (except where this was for 90 days or less and they left 
the UK voluntarily and not at public expense); or 
(b) by breaching a condition attached to their leave; or 
(c) by being an illegal entrant; or 
(d) if deception was used in relation to an application or documents used 
in support of an application (whether successful or not). 
 
V  3.10 The duration of a re-entry ban is as follows: 
Duration of 
re entry 
ban from 
date they 
left the UK 
(or date of 
refusal of 
entry 
clearance  
under 
paragraph 
f) 
This 
applies 
where the 
applicant 
and  and  
(a) 12 
months 
left 
voluntarily  
at their own expense. - 
(b) 2 years left 
voluntarily  
at public expense Within 6 months of being 
given notice of liability for 
removal or when they no 
longer had a pending 
appeal or administrative 
review, whichever is later. 
(c) 5 years left 
voluntarily 
at public expense,  more than 6 months after 
being given notice of 
liability for removal or 
when they no longer had a 
pending appeal or 
administrative review, 
whichever is later. 
(d) 5 years left or was 
removed 
from the 
UK 
as a condition of a caution 
issued in accordance with 
section 22 of the Criminal 
Justice Act 2003 (and 
providing that any 
condition prohibiting their 
- 
return to the UK has itself 
expired) 
(e) 10 years was 
deported 
from the 
UK or was 
removed 
from the 
UK 
at public expense - 
(f) 10 years used 
deception 
in an 
application 
for entry 
clearance 
(including a 
visit visa). 
- - 
 
V  3.11 Where more than one breach of the UK's immigration laws has occurred, 
only the breach which leads to the longest period of absence from the UK 
will be relevant. 
 
Failure to produce satisfactory identity documents or provide other 
information 
 
V  3.12 An applicant will be refused where the applicant:  
(a) fails to produce a valid travel document that satisfies the decision 
maker as to their identity and  nationality.  
(b) fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement to:  
(i) attend an interview; or 
(ii) provide information; or 
(iii) provide biometrics; or 
(iv) undergo a medical examination or provide a medical report. 
 
Medical  
 
V  3.13 An applicant will normally be refused where, on the advice of the medical 
inspector, it is undesirable to grant the application for medical reasons. 
 
Debt to the NHS 
 
V  3.14 An applicant will normally be refused where a relevant NHS body has 
notified the Secretary of State that the applicant has failed to pay charges 
under relevant NHS regulations on charges to overseas visitors and the 
outstanding charges have a total value of at least £1000. 
 
Admission to the Common Travel Area or other countries 
 
V 3.15 An applicant will be refused where they are seeking entry to the UK with the 
intention of entering another part of the Common Travel Area, and fails to 
satisfy the decision maker that they are acceptable to the immigration 
authorities there.  
 
V 3.16 An applicant will normally be refused where they fail to satisfy the decision 
maker that they will be admitted to another country after a stay in the UK.  
 
 
PART V4. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR VISITORS 
(STANDARD) 
 
V  4.1 The decision maker must be satisfied that the applicant meets all of the 
eligibility requirements in paragraphs V 4.2 – V 4.10.  The decision maker 
must be satisfied that the applicant meets any additional eligibility 
requirements, where the applicant: 
(a) is a child at the date of application, they must also meet the additional 
requirements at V 4.11 – V 4.13; or 
(b) is coming to the UK to receive private medical treatment, they must 
also meet the additional requirements at V 4.14 – V 4.16; or 
(c) is coming to the UK as an organ donor, they must also meet the 
additional requirements at V 4.17 – V 4.20; or 
(d) is coming to the UK under the ADS agreement, they must also meet 
the additional requirements at V 4.21; or 
(e) is an academic seeking a 12 month visit visa, they must also meet the 
additional requirements at V 4.22. 
 
Genuine intention to visit 
 
V  4.2 The applicant must satisfy the decision maker that they are a genuine 
visitor.  This means that the applicant: 
(a) will leave the UK at the end of their visit; and  
(b) will not live in the UK for extended periods through frequent or 
successive visits, or make the UK their main home; and 
(c) is genuinely seeking entry for a purpose that is permitted by the visitor 
routes (these are listed in Appendices 3, 4 and 5); and 
(d) will not undertake any prohibited activities set out in V 4.5 – V 4.10; 
and 
(e) must have sufficient funds to cover all reasonable costs in relation to 
their visit without working or accessing public funds.  This includes the 
cost of the return or onward journey, any costs relating to dependants, 
and the cost of planned activities such as private medical treatment. 
 
Funds, maintenance and accommodation provided by a third party 
 
V  4.3 A visitor’s travel, maintenance and accommodation may be provided by a 
third party where  the decision maker is satisfied that they: 
(a) have a genuine professional or personal relationship with the visitor; 
and  
(b) are not, or will not be, in breach of UK immigration laws at the time of 
decision or the visitor’s entry to the UK; and 
(c) can and will provide support to the visitor for the intended duration of 
their stay. 
 
V  4.4 The third party may be asked to give an undertaking in writing to be 
responsible for the applicant’s maintenance and accommodation.  In this 
case paragraph 35 of Part 1 of these Rules applies also to Visitors.  An 
applicant will normally be refused where, having been requested to do so, 
the applicant fails to provide a valid written undertaking from a third party to 
be responsible for their maintenance and accommodation for the period of 
any visit. 
 
Prohibited activities  
 
Work  
V  4.5 The applicant must not intend to work  in the UK, which includes the 
following: 
(a) taking employment in the UK; 
(b) doing work for an organisation or business in the UK; 
(c) establishing or running a business as a self-employed person;  
(d) doing a work placement or internship;  
(e) direct selling to the public;  
(f) providing goods and services;  
unless expressly allowed by the permitted activities in Appendices 3, 4 or 5.   
 
V  4.6 Permitted activities must not amount to the applicant taking employment, or 
doing work which amounts to them filling a role or providing short-term 
cover for a role within a UK based organisation.  In addition, where the 
applicant is already paid and employed outside of the UK, they must remain 
so.  Payment may only be allowed in specific circumstances set out in V 
4.7. 
 
Payment 
V  4.7 The applicant must not receive payment from a UK source for any activities 
undertaken in the UK, except for the following: 
(a) reasonable expenses to cover the cost of their travel and subsistence, 
including fees for directors attending board-level meetings; or 
(b) prize money; or 
(c) billing a UK client for their time in the UK, where the applicant’s 
overseas employer is contracted to provide services to a UK company, 
and the majority of the contract work is carried out overseas.  Payment 
must be lower than the amount of the applicant’s salary; or 
(d) multi-national companies who, for administrative reasons, handle 
payment of their employees’ salaries from the UK; or 
(e) where the applicant is engaged in Permitted Paid Engagements (PPE) 
as listed at Appendix 4, provided the applicant holds a visa or leave to 
enter as a PPE visitor; or 
(f) paid performances at a permit free festival as listed in Appendix 5. 
 
Study  
V  4.8 The applicant must not intend to study in the UK, except except as 
permitted by paragraph 25 of Appendix 3. 
 
Medical 
V  4.9 The applicant must not intend to access medical treatment other than 
private medical treatment or to donate an organ (for either of these 
activities they must meet the relevant additional requirements). 
 
Marriage or civil partnership 
V  4.10  The applicant must not intend to marry or form a civil partnership, or to give 
notice of this, in the UK, except where they have a visit visa endorsed for 
marriage or civil partnership. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for children  
 
V  4.11 Adequate arrangements must have been made for their travel to, reception 
and care in the UK. 
 
V  4.12 If the applicant is not applying or travelling with a parent or guardian based 
in their home country or country of ordinary residence who is responsible 
for their care; that parent or guardian  must confirm that they consent to the 
arrangements for the child’s travel to,  and reception and care in the UK.  
Where requested, this consent must be given in writing. 
 
V  4.13 A child who holds a visit visa must either: 
(a) hold a valid visit visa that states they are accompanied and will be 
travelling with an adult identified on that visit visa; or 
(b) hold a visit visa which states they are unaccompanied; 
if neither applies, the child may be refused entry unless they meet the 
requirements of V 4.12. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for visitors coming to the UK to receive 
private medical treatment 
 
V  4.14 If the applicant is suffering from a communicable disease, they must have 
satisfied the medical inspector that they are not a danger to public health. 
 
V  4.15 The applicant must have arranged their private medical treatment before 
they travel to the UK, and  must provide a letter from their doctor or 
consultant detailing: 
(a) the medical condition requiring consultation or treatment; and 
(b) the estimated costs and likely duration of any treatment which must be 
of a finite duration; and 
(c) where the consultation or treatment will take place. 
 
V  4.16 If the applicant is applying for an 11 month visit visa for the purposes of 
private medical treatment they must also: 
(a) provide evidence from their medical practitioner in the UK that the 
proposed treatment is likely to exceed 6 months but not more than 11 
months; and 
(b) if required under paragraph A39 and Appendix T Part 1 of these Rules, 
provide a valid medical certificate issued by a medical practitioner 
listed in Appendix T Part 2 of these Rules confirming that they have 
undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this 
tuberculosis is not present in the applicant. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for visitors coming to the UK to donate an 
organ  
 
V  4.17 An applicant must satisfy the decision maker that they genuinely intend to 
donate an organ, or be assessed as a potential organ donor, to an 
identified recipient in the UK with whom they have a genetic or close 
personal relationship. 
 
V  4.18 The applicant must provide written confirmation of medical tests to show 
that they are a donor match to the identified recipient, or that they are 
undergoing further tests to be assessed as a potential donor to the 
identified recipient. 
 
V  4.19 The applicant must provide a letter, dated no more than three months prior 
to the applicant’s intended date of arrival in the UK from either: 
(a) the lead nurse or coordinator of the UK’s NHS Trust’s Living Donor 
kidney Transplant team; or  
(b) a UK registered medical practitioner who holds an NHS consultant post 
or who appears in the Specialist Register of the General Medical Council;  
which confirms that the visitor meets the requirements in V 4.17 and V 
4.18 and confirms when and where the planned organ transplant or 
medical tests will take place. 
 
V  4.20 The applicant must be able to demonstrate, if required to do so, that the 
identified recipient is legally present in the United Kingdom or will be at the 
time of the planned organ transplant. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for visitors coming under the ADS 
agreement  
 
V  4.21 An applicant under the Approved Destination Status (ADS) Agreement with 
China must: 
(a) be a national of the People’s Republic of China; and 
(b) intend to enter, leave and travel within the UK as a member of a tourist 
group under the ADS agreement. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for academics 
 
V  4.22 An academic applying for a 12 month visit visa (standard) must intend to do 
one (or more) of the permitted activities set out in paragraph 12 of 
Appendix 3; and: 
(a) be highly qualified within their own field of expertise; and  
(b) currently working in that field at an academic institution or institution of 
higher education overseas; and 
(c)  if required under paragraph A39 and Appendix T Part 1 of these Rules, 
provide a valid medical certificate issued by a medical practitioner 
listed in Appendix T Part 2 of these Rules confirming that they have 
undergone screening for active pulmonary tuberculosis and that this 
tuberculosis is not present in the applicant   
 
Conditions  
 
V  4.23 Visit visas, leave to enter or an extension of stay as a visitor will be subject 
to the following conditions:  
(a) no recourse to public funds; and 
(b) no study, except as permitted by paragraph 25 of Appendix 3; and 
(c) no work (which does not prohibit the permitted activities in Appendix 3, 4 
or 5 as set out in V1.5).   
 
PART V5. ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR A PPE VISITOR  
 
V  5.1 An applicant for permitted paid engagements must satisfy the decision 
maker that they meet the requirements at V 4.2 - V 4.10.   
 
Additional eligibility requirements for a permitted paid engagements visit visa 
or leave to enter 
 
V  5.2 An applicant must intend to do one (or more) of the permitted paid 
engagements set out in Appendix 4 to these Rules, which must:  
(a) be arranged before the applicant travels to the UK; and 
(b) be declared as part of the application for a visit visa or leave to enter; 
and  
(c) be evidenced by a formal invitation, as required by Appendix 4; and  
(d)  relate to the applicant’s area of expertise and occupation overseas. 
 
V  5.3 An applicant must not be a child. 
 
PART V6.  ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR A MARRIAGE OR 
CIVIL PARTNERSHIP VISIT VISA  
 
V  6.1 An applicant for a marriage or civil partnership visit visa must satisfy the 
decision maker that they meet the requirements at V 4.2 - V 4.10 and must 
be aged 18 or over. 
 
V  6.2 On arrival in the UK a visitor coming to marry or form a civil partnership, or 
give notice of this, in the UK must have a valid visit visa endorsed with this 
purpose and the name of the holder’s fiancé(e) or proposed civil partner. 
 
Additional eligibility requirements for a marriage or civil partnership visit visa  
 
V  6.3 An applicant seeking to come to the UK as a visitor  
who wishes to give notice of marriage or civil partnership, or  marry or form 
a civil partnership, in the UK during that visit must satisfy the decision 
maker that they:  
(a) intend to give notice of marriage or civil partnership; or  
(b) intend to marry or form a civil partnership; and 
(c)  do not intend to give notice of or enter into a sham marriage or sham 
civil partnership, 
within the validity period covered by their visit visa. 
 
 
PART V7. TRANSIT VISITOR   
 
Transit visitor  
 
V  7.1 A transit visitor is a person who seeks to travel via the UK en route to 
another destination country outside the common travel area. 
 
V  7.2 Individuals seeking to transit the UK without passing through the UK border 
may need a Direct Airside Transit Visa.  These are provided for by the 
Immigration (Passenger Transit Visa) Order 2014 (as amended).   
 
V  7.3 This Part does not apply to crew members who are employed in the 
working or service of their ship, aircraft, hovercraft, hydrofoil or train who 
fall under section 8(1) of the Immigration Act 1971. 
 
V  7.4 A visa national must either hold a transit visit visa or, if they meet the 
requirements for admission under the transit without visa scheme in V 7.6 – 
V 7.8, they may seek leave to enter at the UK border. 
 
 
Eligibility requirements for a transit visa or leave to enter for transit 
 
V  7.5 An applicant must satisfy the decision maker that they:  
(a) are genuinely in transit to another country outside the common travel 
area, meaning the main purpose of their visit is to transit the UK and 
that the applicant is taking a reasonable transit route; and 
(b) will not access public funds or medical treatment, work or study in the 
UK; and 
(c) genuinely intend and are able to leave the UK within 48 hours after 
their arrival; and 
(d) are assured  entry to their country of destination and any other 
countries they are transiting on their way there. 
 
Transit Without Visa Scheme  
 
V  7.6 To be granted leave to enter under the transit without visa scheme a visa 
national must meet all the requirements at V 7.7 and one of the 
requirements at V 7.8.  
 
V  7.7 The applicant must:  
(a) have arrived by air and will be departing by air; and  
(b) be genuinely in transit to another country, meaning the purpose of 
their visit is to transit the UK and that the applicant  is taking a 
reasonable transit route; and  
(c)  will not access public funds or medical treatment, work or study in the 
UK; and  
(d) genuinely intend and be able to leave the UK before 23:59 hours on 
the day after the day when they arrived; and  
(e) have a confirmed booking on a flight departing the UK before 23:59 
hours on the day after the day when they arrived; and  
(f) be assured entry to their country of destination and any other 
countries they are transiting through on their way there.  
 
V  7.8 The applicant must also:  
 
(a) be travelling to or from (or on part of a reasonable journey to or from) 
Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA and have a valid visa for 
that country; or  
 
(b) be travelling from (or on part of a reasonable journey from) Australia, 
Canada, New Zealand or the USA and it is less than 6 months since 
he last entered that country with a valid entry visa; or  
 
(c) hold a valid permanent residence permit issued by either:  
 
(i) Australia;  
 
(ii) Canada, issued after 28 June 2002;  
 
(iii) New Zealand;  or 
 
 
(d) hold a valid USA, I-551 permanent resident card issued on or after 21 
April 1998; or 
 
(e) hold a valid USA I-551 temporary immigrant visa (a wet-ink stamp 
version will not be accepted); or 
 
 (f) hold an expired USA I-551 permanent resident card issued on or after 
21 April 1998, provided it is accompanied by a valid I-797 letter 
authorising extension of the period of permanent residency; or 
 
(g)  hold a valid standalone US immigration form 155A/155B attached to 
a sealed brown envelope; or   
 
(h) hold a valid common format residence permit issued by an EEA state 
(pursuant to Council Regulation (EC) No. 1030/2002) or Switzerland; 
or  
 
(i) hold a valid uniform format category D visa for entry to a state in the 
European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland; or  
 
(j) be travelling on to the Republic of Ireland and have a valid Irish biometric 
visa; or 
 
(k) be travelling from the Republic of Ireland and it is less than three 
months since the applicant was last given permission to land or be in 
the Republic by the Irish authorities with a valid Irish biometric visa. 
 
V 7.8.1  Paragraph V 7.8 (a) and (b) shall not apply where the transit 
passenger is a citizen or national of Syria holding a B1 or B2 category 
visa for entry to the United States of America. 
 
V7.9 Electronic versions of any documents listed in paragraph V7.8, such as 
electronic visas (including printed versions), will not be accepted. 
 
PART V8. EXTENSION OF STAY AS A VISITOR  
  
Who can apply for an extension of stay as a visitor 
 
V  8.1 It is not possible to switch to become a visitor while in the UK where a 
person is in the UK in breach of immigration laws or has entry clearance or 
leave to enter or remain for another purpose. 
 
Making an application for an extension of stay as a visitor in the UK 
 
V  8.2 An application for an extension of stay as a visitor must comply with the 
requirements in paragraphs A34 – 34D of Part 1 of these Rules.   
 
Eligibility requirements for an extension of stay in the UK as a visitor  
 
V  8.3 The applicant must be in the UK as a visitor. Visitors for permitted paid 
engagements and transit visitors may not apply for an extension of stay as 
a visitor. 
 
V  8.4 An application for an extension of stay as a visitor must satisfy the decision 
maker that they continue to meet all the suitability and eligibility 
requirements for a visit visa.   
 
V  8.5 The applicant must not be in the UK in breach of immigration laws, except 
for any period of overstaying of 28 days or less which will be discounted. 
 
V  8.6 If the applicant is applying for an extension of stay as a visitor for the 
purpose of receiving private medical treatment they must also satisfy the 
decision maker they: 
(a) have met the costs of any medical treatment received so far; and 
(b) provide a letter from a registered medical practitioner, at a private 
practice or NHS hospital, who holds an NHS consultant post or who 
appears in the Specialist Register of the General Medical Council, 
detailing the medical condition requiring further treatment. 
 
How long can a visitor extend their stay in the UK  
 
V  8.7 A visitor (standard) and a visitor for marriage or civil partnership, who was 
granted a visit visa or leave to enter for less than 6 months may be granted 
an extension of stay as a visitor so that the total period they can remain the 
UK (including both the original grant and the extension of stay) does not 
exceed 6 months.  
 
V  8.8 A visitor (standard) who is in the UK for private medical treatment may be 
granted an extension of stay as a visitor for a further 6 months, provided 
this is for private medical treatment. 
 
V  8.9 A visitor (standard) who is an academic on sabbatical leave and is in the 
UK undertaking their own research, or the spouse, partner or child 
accompanying such an academic, can be granted an extension of stay as a 
visitor so that the total period they can remain in the UK (including both the 
original grant and the extension of stay) does not exceed 12 months. 
 
V  8.10 A visitor (standard)  may be granted an extension of stay as a visitor for up 
to 6 months  in order to resit the Professional and Linguistic Assessment 
Board (PLAB) Test, provided they meet the requirements at Appendix 3, 
paragraph 22(b)(i). 
 
V  8.11 A visitor (standard) who is successful in the Professional and Linguistic 
Assessment Board Test may be granted an extension of stay as a visitor to 
undertake an unpaid clinical attachment, provided they meet the 
requirements of Appendix 3, paragraph 22(a) so that the total period they 
can remain in the UK (including both the original grant and the extension of 
stay) does not exceed 18 months. 
 
PART V9. GROUNDS FOR CANCELLATION OF A VISIT VISA OR 
LEAVE BEFORE OR ON ARRIVAL AT THE UK BORDER AND 
CURTAILMENT OF LEAVE    
 
Cancellation of a visit visa or leave to enter or remain as a visitor on or before 
arrival at the UK border  
 
V  9.1 A current visit visa or leave to enter or remain as a visitor may be cancelled 
whilst the person is outside the UK or on arrival in the UK, if any of 
paragraphs V 9.2 – V 9.7 apply.  
 
 Change of circumstances  
V  9.2 Where there has been such a change in the circumstances of the case 
since the visit visa or leave to enter or remain was granted that the basis of 
the visitor’s claim to admission or stay has been removed and the visa or 
leave should be cancelled. 
 
 Change of purpose 
V  9.3 Where the visitor holds a visit visa and their purpose in arriving in the 
United Kingdom is different from the purpose specified in the visit visa. 
 
 False information or failure to disclose a material fact 
V  9.4 Where:  
(a) false representations were made or false documents or information 
submitted (whether or not material to the application, and whether or 
not to the applicant's knowledge); or  
(b) material facts were not disclosed, 
in relation to the application for a visit visa or leave to enter or remain as a 
visitor, or in order to obtain documents from the Secretary of State or a third 
party provided in support of their application. 
 
 Medical 
V  9.5 Where it is undesirable to admit the visitor to the UK for medical reasons, 
unless there are strong compassionate reasons justifying admission.   
 
 Not conducive to the public good 
V  9.6 Where the criteria in V 3.2 - V 3.5. apply. 
  
 Failure to supply information 
V  9.7 Where the person is outside the UK  and there is a failure to supply any 
information, documents, or medical reports requested by a decision maker. 
 
Curtailment 
 
V  9.8 A visit visa or leave to enter or remain as a visitor may be curtailed while 
the person is in the UK if any of paragraphs V 9.9 – V 9.13 apply.  
 
 False information or failure to disclose a material fact 
V  9.9 Where:  
(a) false representations were made or false documents or information 
were submitted (whether or not material to the application, and 
whether or not to the applicant's knowledge); or  
(b) material facts were not disclosed, 
in relation to any application for an entry clearance or leave to enter or 
remain, or for the purpose of obtaining either a document from the 
Secretary of State or third party required in support of the application, or a 
document from the Secretary of State that indicates the person has a right 
to reside in the UK. 
  
 Requirements of the Rules  
V  9.10 If the visitor ceases to meet the requirements of the Visitor Rules. 
 
 Failure to comply with conditions 
V  9.11 If the visitor fails to comply with any conditions of their leave to enter or 
remain. 
 
 Not conducive to the public good 
V  9.12 Where either: 
(a) the visitor has, within the first 6 months of being granted a visit visa or 
leave to enter, committed an offence for which they are subsequently 
sentenced to a period of imprisonment; or 
(b) in the view of the Secretary of State the applicant’s offending has 
caused serious harm; or 
(c) in the view of the Secretary of State the applicant is a persistent 
offender who shows a particular disregard for the law; or 
(d) it would be undesirable to permit the visitor to remain in the UK in light 
of their conduct, character, associations, or the fact that they 
represent a threat to national security. 
 
 
 
APPENDICES TO THE IMMIGRATION RULES FOR VISITORS    
 
VISITORS APPENDIX 1. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS 
  
1 For the purposes of these Visitor Rules the following definitions and 
interpretations apply:  
 
accredited 
institution 
in relation to permitted study, this means an institution which 
is: 
(a) the holder of a Tier 4 sponsor licence; or 
(b) the holder of valid accreditation from Accreditation UK, 
the Accreditation Body for Language Services (ABLS), the 
British Accreditation Council (BAC), or the Accreditation 
Service for International Colleges (ASIC); or  
(c) the holder of a valid and satisfactory full institutional 
inspection, review or audit by the Bridge Schools 
Inspectorate,  Estyn, Education Scotland, the Independent 
Schools Inspectorate, Office for Standards in Education, the 
Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education, the 
Schools Inspection Service or the Education and Training 
Inspectorate Northern Ireland; or  
(d) an overseas higher education institution offering only 
part of its programmes in the UK, holding its own national 
accreditation and offering programmes that are an 
equivalent level to a UK degree. 
ADS Agreement means the Memorandum of Understanding on visa and 
related issues concerning tourist groups from the People's 
Republic of China to the United Kingdom as a approved 
destination, signed on 21 January 2005. 
application centre  means a commercial partner who has been authorised by 
the Secretary of State to accept entry clearance applications 
or British Diplomatic Mission or Consular Post overseas 
where entry clearance applications can be made.  
biometrics  has the same meaning as in section 15 of the UK Borders 
Act, for example,  fingerprints.  
child means a person under the age of 18 years. 
Common Travel 
Area  
the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man 
and the Republic of Ireland collectively form the common 
travel area. 
condition  means any condition of leave to enter or remain under 
section 3(1) (c) of the Immigration Act 1971, such as a 
prohibition on employment or study. 

control zone means a control zone for the time being as defined by article 
2(1) of, and Schedule 1 to, the Channel Tunnel 
(International Arrangements) Order 1993 (SI 1993/1813) 
and article 2 of the Nationality Immigration and Asylum Act 
2002 (Juxtaposed Controls) Order 2003 (SI 2003/2818). 
convicted of a 
criminal offence 
means a conviction for a criminal offence in the UK or any 
other country providing that where the offence was 
committed and the person was convicted outside the UK, 
the offence would, if it was committed in the UK (or any part 
of the UK) also constitute a criminal offence in the UK. 
deception means making false representations or submitting false 
documents or information (whether or not material to the 
application), or failing to disclose material facts. 
decision maker  means an entry clearance officer, immigration officer or the 
Secretary of State as the case may be.    
end of the 
sentence  
means the end of the sentence imposed whether or not all 
of it has been served in prison. 
extension of stay means leave to remain as a visitor granted under the 
Immigration Act 1971.  
fee means any fee payable under regulations made in exercise 
of the powers conferred by sections 68 and 69 of the 
Immigration Act 2014. 
guardian  means a person appointed according to local laws to take 
care of a child. 
illegal entrant  has the same meaning as in section 33(1) of the 
Immigration Act 1971.  
leave to enter  has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Immigration Act 
1971.  
medical inspector  means a medical inspector appointed under Schedule 2 to 
the Immigration Act 1971. 
non-custodial 
sentence  
means a sentence other than a sentence of imprisonment. 
non-visa national  means a person who does not require a visit visa under  
Appendix 2 to these Visitor Rules. 
notice of liability 
for removal 
has the same meaning as in paragraph 6 of these Rules 
out of court means a penalty imposed for an offence without 

disposal  prosecution, e.g. a caution. 
overstayed or 
overstaying  
means the applicant has stayed in the UK beyond the time 
limit attached to the last period of leave granted (including 
any extension of that leave , or under sections 3C or 3D of 
the Immigration Act 1971).  
parent  includes 
(a) the stepfather of a child whose father is dead and the 
reference to stepfather includes a relationship arising 
through civil partnership;  
(b) the stepmother of a child whose mother is dead and the 
reference to stepmother includes a relationship arising 
through civil partnership and;  
(c) the father as well as the mother of an illegitimate child 
where he is proved to be the father;  
(d) an adoptive parent, where a child was adopted in 
accordance with a decision taken by the competent 
administrative authority or court in a country whose adoption 
orders are recognised by the UK or where a child is the 
subject of a de facto adoption in accordance with the 
requirements of paragraph 309A of these Rules.   
pending appeal has the same meaning as in section 104 of the Nationality, 
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002. 
period of 
imprisonment  
 
means a period of imprisonment in the UK or outside the UK 
(subject to the matters mentioned in section 38(2) of the UK 
Borders Act 2007). 
private medical 
treatment 
means treatment provided by a private health provider, or by 
the NHS where there is a reciprocal arrangement in place 
with another country by which certain nationals may receive 
NHS treatment. 
public expense  in relation to a person’s departure from the UK, means 
directly or indirectly at the expense of the Secretary of State. 
public funds  means 
(a) housing under Part VI or VII of the Housing Act 1996 and 
under Part II of the Housing Act 1985, Part I or II of the 
Housing (Scotland) Act 1987, Part II of the Housing 
(Northern Ireland) Order 1981 or Part II of the Housing 
(Northern Ireland) Order 1988;  
(b) attendance allowance, severe disablement allowance, 
carer's allowance and disability living allowance under Part 
III of the Social Security Contribution and Benefits Act 1992;, 
income support, council tax benefit and housing benefit 
under Part VII of that Act; a social fund payment under Part 
VIII of that Act; child benefit under Part IX of that Act; 

income based jobseeker's allowance under the Jobseekers 
Act 1995, income related allowance under Part 1 of the 
Welfare Reform Act 2007 (employment and support 
allowance) state pension credit under the State Pension 
Credit Act 2002; or child tax credit and working tax credit 
under Part 1 of the Tax Credits Act 2002;  
(c) attendance allowance, severe disablement allowance, 
carer's allowance and disability living allowance under Part 
III of the Social Security Contribution and Benefits (Northern 
Ireland) Act 1992;, income support, council tax benefit and, 
housing benefit under Part VII of that Act; a social fund 
payment under Part VIII of that Act; child benefit under Part 
IX of that Act; income based jobseeker's allowance under 
the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 or income 
related allowance under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 
(Northern Ireland) 2007;  
(d) Universal Credit under Part 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 
2012 or Personal Independence Payment under Part 4 of 
that Act;  
(e) Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment or 
any domestic rate relief under the Northern Ireland Welfare 
Reform Act 2013;  
(f) a council tax reduction under a council tax reduction 
scheme made under section 13A of the Local Government 
Finance Act 1992 in relation to England or Wales or a 
council tax reduction pursuant to the Council Tax Reduction 
(Scotland) Regulations 2012 or the Council Tax Reduction 
(State Pension Credit) (Scotland) Regulations 2012.  
Paragraphs (6A), (6B) and (6C) of the Immigration Rules 
also apply. 
recreational 
course  
means a course undertaken purely for leisure purposes, for 
example,  pottery or horse riding.   
relevant NHS body  means 
a) in relation to England-  
(i) a National Health Service Trust established under section 
25 of the National Health Service Act 2006,  
(ii) a NHS foundation trust.  
b) in relation to Wales-  
(i) a Local Health Board established under section 11 of the 
National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,  
(ii) a National Health Service Trust established under 
section 18 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,  
(iii) a Special Health Authority established under 22 of the 
National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006.  
c) in relation to Scotland-  
(i) a Health Board or Special Health Board established 
under section 2 of the National Health Service (Scotland) 
Act 1978 (c. 29),  

(ii) the Common Services Agency for the Scottish Health 
Service established under section 10 of that Act,  
(iii) Healthcare Improvement Scotland established under 
section 10A of that Act.  
d) in relation to Northern Ireland-  
(i) the Regional Health and Social Care Board established 
under the Health and Social Care (Reform) Act (Northern 
Ireland) 2009,  
(ii) a Health and Social Care trust established under the 
Health and Personal Social Services (Northern Ireland) 
Order 1991 (S.I. 1991/194 (N.I. 1)) and renamed under the 
Health and Social Care (Reform) Act (Northern Ireland) 
2009.  
relevant NHS 
regulations  
means 
(i) The National Health Service (Charges to Overseas 
Visitors) (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2004 (2004 No 
1433);  
(ii) The National Health Service (Charges to Overseas 
Visitors) (Scotland) Regulations 1989 as amended (1989 No 
364);  
(iii) The Health and Personal Social Services (Provision of 
Health Services to Persons not Ordinarily Resident) 
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 (2005 No 551); or  
(iv) The National Health Service (Charges to Overseas 
Visitors) Regulations (2011 No 1556).  
sham marriage & 
sham civil 
partnership 
this has the same meaning as in sections 24(5) and 24A(5) 
of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999.  
supplementary 
control zone  
means the supplementary control zone within the meaning 
of  Article 2(1) and Schedule 1 to the Channel Tunnel 
(International Agreements) Order 1993 (SI 1993/1813). 
travel document  means a valid passport or other document that allows the 
holder to travel internationally and which (i)  complies with 
international passport practice; (ii) is not issued by a territory 
that:  
is not recognised by Her Majesty’s government as a state; 
or  
is not dealt with as a government by them; or  
does not accept valid UK passports for the purpose of its 
own immigration control. 
UK border  means immigration control at a UK port and a control zone 
in France or Belgium or a supplementary control zone in 
France as defined by Article 2(1) and Schedule 1 to the 
Channel Tunnel (International Arrangements) Order 1993 
(SI 1993/1813) and Article 3 of the Nationality Immigration 

and Asylum Act 2002 (Juxtaposed Controls) Order 2003 (SI 
2003/2818). 
UK Higher 
Education 
Institution 
means a body that receives public funding as a UK Higher 
Education Institution from the: 
- Department for Employment and Learning in Northern 
Ireland; 
- Higher Education Funding Council for England; 
- Higher Education Funding Council for Wales; or 
- Scottish Funding Council. 
And Richmond, the American International University in 
London.  
visa national  persons specified in Appendix 2 to Appendix V: Visitors who 
need a visa for the United Kingdom for a visit or for any 
other purposes where seeking entry for 6 months or less. 
visa post  means a British Diplomatic Mission or Consular Post 
overseas or other office nominated by the Secretary of State 
where entry clearance applications are considered. 
Applicants can find the relevant local application centre on 
gov.uk. 
visit visa  means an entry clearance for the purpose of a visit under 
section 33 of the Immigration Act 1971.  It is normally a 
vignette in the holder’s passport.  It includes entry 
clearances for visitors that were issued under paragraphs 
40-56, 56D-56J, 56N-56Z, 75A-75M of these Rules and 
Appendix V. 
 

APPENDIX 2. VISA NATIONAL LIST 
  
Visa nationals 
 
1 People who meet one or more of the criteria below need a visa in advance of 
travel to the UK as a visitor or for any other purpose for less than six months, unless 
they meet one of the exceptions set out in paragraphs 2 – 19:  
 
(a) Nationals or citizens of the following countries or territorial entities (a 
“*” indicates there are exceptions in paragraphs 2 - 19): 
Afghanistan 
Albania 
Algeria 
Angola 
Armenia 
Azerbaijan 
Bahrain* 
Bangladesh 
Belarus 
Benin 
Bhutan 
Bolivia 
Bosnia Herzegovina 
Burkina Faso 
Burma 
Burundi 
Cambodia 
Cameroon 
Cape Verde 
Central African Republic 
Chad 
People's Republic of 
China* 
Colombia 
Comoros 
Congo 
Cuba 
Democratic Republic of 
the Congo 
Djibouti 
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
Egypt 
Equatorial Guinea 
Eritrea 
Ethiopia 
Fiji 
Gabon 
Gambia 
Georgia 
Ghana 
Guinea 
Guinea Bissau 
Guyana 
Haiti 
India 
Indonesia 
Iran 
Iraq 
Ivory Coast 
Jamaica 
Jordan 
Kazakhstan 
Kenya 
Korea (North) 
Kosovo 
Kuwait * 
Kyrgyzstan 
Laos 
Lebanon 
Lesotho 
Liberia 
Libya 
Macedonia 
Madagascar 
Malawi 
Mali 
Mauritania 
Moldova 
Mongolia 
Montenegro 
Morocco 
Mozambique 
Nepal 
Niger 
Nigeria 
Oman* 
Pakistan 
Peru 
Philippines 
Qatar* 
Russia 
Rwanda 
Sao Tome e Principe 
Saudi Arabia 
Senegal 
Serbia 
Sierra Leone 
Somalia 
South Africa* 
South Sudan 
Sri Lanka 
Sudan 
Suriname 
Swaziland 
Syria 
Taiwan* 
Tajikistan 
Tanzania 
Thailand 
Togo 
Tunisia 
Turkey * 
Turkmenistan 
Uganda 
Ukraine 
United Arab Emirates* 
Uzbekistan 
Venezuela 
Vietnam* 
Yemen 
Zambia 
Zimbabwe
 27 
 
(b) Stateless people. 
(c) People travelling on any document other than a national 
passport, regardless of whether the document is issued by or 
evidences nationality of a state not listed in (a), except where that 
document has been issued by the UK. 
 
Exceptions to the list of visa nationals 
 
Holders of specified travel documents 
2 The following people do not need a visa before they travel to the UK as a 
visitor:  
(a) nationals or citizens of the People's Republic of China who hold 
passports issued by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; or 
(b) nationals or citizens of the People's Republic of China who hold 
passports issued by the Macao Special Administrative Region; or 
(c) nationals or citizens of Taiwan who hold a passport issued by Taiwan 
that includes in it the number of the identification card issued by the 
competent authority in Taiwan; or 
(d) people who hold Service, Temporary Service and Diplomatic 
passports issued by the Holy See. 
 
3 The following people do not need a visa before they travel to the UK as a 
visitor if they are travelling to the UK as a visitor for official purposes or the 
purposes of tourism or as a visitor in transit: 
(a) nationals or citizens of Oman, who hold a diplomatic or special 
passport issued by Oman; or 
(b) nationals or citizens of Qatar who hold a diplomatic or special 
passport issued by Qatar; or  
(c) nationals or citizens of the United Arab Emirates who hold a 
diplomatic or  special passport issued by the United Arab Emirates; or 
(d) nationals or citizens of Turkey, who hold a diplomatic passport issued 
by Turkey; or 
(e) nationals of Kuwait who hold diplomatic or special passports issued by 
Kuwait; or 
(f) nationals of Bahrain who hold diplomatic or special passports issued by 
Bahrain; or 
(g)  nationals of South Africa who hold diplomatic passports issued by 
South Africa; or 
(h)  nationals of Vietnam who hold diplomatic passports issued by Vietnam.  
 
Exception to visa nationals where the applicant holds an Electronic Visa 
Waiver Document (Oman, Qatar and United Arab Emirates passport holders 
only) 
 
Objective 
4 Under the Electronic Visa Waiver (EVW) scheme, holders of a valid EVW 
document do not need to obtain a visit visa, or a visa for entry for  six 
months or less where there is no mandatory entry clearance requirement, 
 28 
in advance of arrival in the UK, but can instead apply for leave to enter at 
the UK border. 
 
5 Only passport holders of Oman, Qatar or the United Arab Emirates can 
hold and use an EVW document. 
(a) If the holder’s EVW does not meet the validity requirements at 
paragraphs 7-13 of this Appendix; or  
(b) the EVW Document is not used in the manner specified in 14 - 19 of 
this Appendix;   
they will be a visa national and will require a visit visa, meaning that they 
will normally be refused entry to the UK. 
 
6 An EVW Document relates to one person and may only be used for one 
application for leave to enter the UK or, where applicable, one crossing of 
the land border from the Republic of Ireland.  
 
Electronic Visa Waiver Document validity requirements  
7 To obtain an EVW, an applicant must provide the required biographic and 
travel information at the Visa4UK website established by the UK 
Government at http://www.visa4uk.fco.gov.uk/home/evw.  
 
8 The EVW Document must specify the flight, train or ship on which the 
applicant intends to arrive in the UK, including the port of departure and 
arrival, and the scheduled date and time of departure and arrival, unless 9 
or 10 applies. 
 
9 Where the applicant is seeking to arrive in the UK by entering a control 
zone in France or Belgium or supplementary control zone in France, the 
EVW must specify the train or ship on which they intend to arrive in the UK, 
including: 
(a) the railway station or port where the visitor enters the control zone or 
supplementary control zone and from which the applicant intends to 
depart for the UK; and 
(b) the railway station or port at which the applicant intends to leave the 
train or ship after arrival in the UK; and  
(c) the scheduled date and time of departure from, and arrival at, the 
specified railway stations or ports. 
 
10 Where the applicant intends to cross the land border from the Republic of 
Ireland to the UK by train, car or any other means, the EVW must specify 
the place at which it is intended to cross the border and the intended date 
and time of arrival in the UK. 
 
11 When the EVW Document is issued it must be printed in a legible form and 
in English.  
 
12 An EVW Document is only valid if issued at least 48 hours before the 
holder departs on a flight, train or ship to the UK or crosses the UK land 
border from the Republic of Ireland by train, car or any other means.  
 
 29 
13 An EVW Document may not be issued more than 3 months before the date 
of the holder's scheduled departure to the UK as specified on the EVW 
Document or, where the holder intends to cross the land border with the 
Republic of Ireland, before the intended date of the holder's arrival in the 
UK as specified on the EVW Document. 
 
How an Electronic Visa Waiver Document must be used 
14 The holder must present the EVW Document to an Immigration Officer on 
request upon the holder's arrival at the UK Border or, where the holder is 
seeking to arrive in the UK by entering a control zone in France or Belgium 
or a supplementary control zone in France, upon arrival in that zone.  
 
15 The EVW Document must be surrendered to an Immigration Officer upon 
request. 
 
16 The biographic details on the EVW Document must match those on the 
valid passport also presented by the holder to the Immigration Officer.   
 
17 The holder must travel on the flight, train or ship specified on the EVW 
Document unless 18 or 19 applies. 
 
18 If the holder travels on a different flight, train or ship this must depart from the 
same port or railway station and arrive at the same UK port or railway station 
as specified on the EVW Document; and either 
(a) depart after the departure time specified on the EVW Document and 
arrive in the UK no more than 8 hours after the arrival time specified 
on the EVW Document; or  
(b)  if the holder is seeking to arrive in the UK by entering a control zone 
in France or Belgium or a supplementary control zone in France, 
arrive no more than 8 hours after, the departure time specified on the 
EVW Document. 
 
19 If the holder is seeking to arrive in the UK by crossing the land border from 
the Republic of Ireland, the holder must cross at the time specified on the 
EVW Document or no more than 8 hours after the time specified on the 
EVW Document. 
 
 30 
VISITORS APPENDIX 3. PERMITTED ACTIVITIES FOR ALL 
VISITORS (EXCEPT TRANSIT VISITORS) 
 
1 All visitors are permitted to undertake the activities listed in paragraphs 3 – 
27 of this Appendix provided they meet the requirements at V 4.5- V 4.8. 
Visitors coming to the UK under the ADS agreement may only do activities 
in paragraph 3 of this appendix.  
 
2 Visitors may only receive payment where allowed by V 4.7.  
 
Tourism and leisure 
 
3 A visitor may visit friends and family and / or come to the UK for a holiday.   
 
Volunteering 
 
4 A visitor may undertake incidental volunteering (i.e. the main purpose of the 
visit is not to volunteer), provided it lasts no more than 30 days in total and 
is for a charity that is registered with either the Charity Commission for 
England and Wales; the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland; or the 
Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator. 
 
Business – general activities 
 
5 A visitor may: 
(a) attend meetings, conferences, seminars, interviews; 
(b) give a one-off or short series of talks and speeches provided these are 
not organised as commercial events and will not make a profit for the 
organiser; 
(c) negotiate and sign deals and contracts; 
(d) attend trade fairs, for promotional work only, provided the visitor is not 
directly selling;  
(e) carry out site visits and inspections;  
(f) gather  information for their employment overseas;  
(g) be briefed on the requirements of a UK based customer, provided any 
work for the customer is done outside of the UK. 
 
Business – corporate  
 
Intra-corporate activities 
6 An employee of an overseas based company may: 
(a) advise and consult;  
(b) trouble-shoot;  
(c) provide training;  
(d) share skills and knowledge; 
on a specific internal project with UK employees of the same corporate 
group, provided no work is carried out directly with clients.  
 
7 An internal auditor may carry out regulatory or financial audits at a UK 
branch of the same group of companies as the visitor’s employer overseas. 
 31 
 
Prospective Entrepreneur 
8 A visitor who can show support from:  
(a) one or more registered venture capitalist firms regulated by the 
financial conduct authority; or 
(b) one or more UK entrepreneurial seed funding competitions which is 
listed as endorsed on 
www.gov.uk/government/publications/entrepreneurs-setting-up-in-the-
uk/entrepreneurs-setting-up-in-the-uk; or 
(c) one or more UK Government Departments; 
may come to the UK for discussions to secure funding from one of the 
above sources which they intend to use to join, set up or take over a 
business in the UK.  
  
Manufacturing and supply of goods to the UK 
9 An employee of a foreign manufacturer or supplier may install, dismantle, 
repair, service or advise on equipment, computer software or hardware 
where it has a contract of purchase or supply or lease with a UK company 
or organisation. 
 
Clients of UK export companies 
10 A client of a UK export company may be seconded to the UK company in 
order to oversee the requirements for goods and services that are being 
provided under contract by the UK company or its subsidiary company, 
provided the two companies are not part of the same group.  Employees 
may exceptionally make multiple visits to cover the duration of the contract. 
 
Business – specific sectors 
 
Science, research and academia 
11 Scientists and researchers may:  
(a) gather information and facts for a specific project which directly 
relates to their employment overseas;  
(b) share knowledge or advise on an international project that is being led 
from the UK, provided the visitor is not carrying our research in the 
UK. 
 
12 Academics may: 
(a) take part in formal exchange arrangements with UK counterparts 
(including doctors);  
(b) carry out  research for their own purposes if they are  on sabbatical 
leave from their home institution;  
(c) if they are an eminent senior doctor or dentist, take part in research, 
teaching or clinical practice provided this does not amount to filling a 
permanent teaching post. 
 
Legal   
13 An expert witness may visit the UK to give evidence in a UK court.  Other 
witnesses may visit the UK to attend a court hearing in the UK if summoned 
in person by a UK court. 
 32 
 
14 An overseas lawyer may advise a UK based client on specific international 
litigation and/or an international transaction. 
 
Religion 
15 Religious workers may visit the UK to preach or do pastoral work.   
 
Creative  
16 An artist, entertainer, or musician may:  
(a) give performances as an individual or as part of a group;  
(b) take part in competitions or auditions;  
(c) make personal appearances and take part in promotional activities;  
(d) take part in one or more cultural events or festivals on the list of 
permit free festivals in Appendix 5 (where payment is permitted). 
 
17 Personal or technical staff or members of the production team of an artist, 
entertainer or musician may support the activities in paragraph 16 of this 
Appendix or paragraph 1(e) of Appendix 4, provided they are attending the 
same event as the artist, entertainer or musician, and are employed to work 
for them outside of the UK.   
 
18 Film crew (actor, producer, director or technician) employed by an overseas 
company may visit the UK to take part in a location shoot for a film or 
programme that is produced and financed overseas. 
 
Sport 
19 A sports person may: 
(a) take part in a sports tournament or sports event as an individual or part 
of a team;  
(b) make personal appearances and take part in promotional activities;  
(c) take part in trials provided they are not in front of a paying audience;  
(d) take part in short periods of training provided they are not being paid by 
a UK sporting body;  
(e) join an amateur team or club to gain experience in a particular sport if 
  they are an amateur in that sport. 
 
20 Personal or technical staff of the sports person, or sports officials, may 
support the activities in paragraph 19 of this Appendix or in paragraph 1(e) 
of Appendix 4, if they are attending the same event as the sports person. 
Personal or technical staff of the sports person must be employed to work 
for the sports person outside the UK.  
Business - overseas roles requiring specific activities in the UK  
 
21 Individuals employed outside the UK may visit the UK to take part in the 
following activities in relation to their employment overseas: 
(a) a translator and/or interpreter may support a business person in the 
UK, provided they will attend the same event(s) as the business 
person and are employed by that business person outside of the UK;  
(b) personal assistants and bodyguards may support an overseas 
business person in carrying out permitted activities,  provided they will 
 33 
attend the same event(s) as the business person and are employed 
by them outside the UK.  They must not be providing personal care or 
domestic work for the business person; 
(c) a driver on a genuine international route delivering goods or 
passengers from abroad to the UK;  
(d) a tour group courier, contracted to a company with its headquarters 
outside the UK, who is entering and departing the UK with a tour 
group organised by their company;  
(e) a journalist, correspondent, producer or cameraman gathering 
information for an overseas publication, programme or film; 
(f) archaeologists taking part in a one-off archaeological excavation;  
(g) a professor from an overseas academic institution accompanying 
students to the UK as part of a study abroad programme, may provide 
a small amount of teaching to the students at the host organisation.  
However this must not amount to filling a permanent teaching role for 
that institution. 
 
Work-related training 
 
22 Overseas graduates from medical, dental or nursing schools may: 
(a) undertake clinical attachments or dental observer posts provided 
these are unpaid, and involve no treatment of patients.  The visitor 
must provide written confirmation of their offer to take up this post and 
confirm they have not previously undertaken this activity in the UK;  
(b) take the following test/examination in the UK:  
(i) the Professional and Linguistic Assessment Board (PLAB) test, 
where the visitor can provide written confirmation of this from the 
General Medical Council; or 
(ii) the Objective Structured Clinical Examinations (OSCE) for 
overseas, where the visitor can provide written evidence of this 
from the Nursing and Midwifery Council. 
 
23 Employees of an overseas company or organisation may receive training 
from a UK based company or organisation in work practices and 
techniques which are required for the visitor’s employment overseas and 
not available in their home country. 
 
24 An employee of an overseas based training company may deliver a short 
series of training to employees of a UK based company, where the trainer 
is employed by an overseas business contracted to deliver global training 
to the international corporate group to which the UK based company 
belongs.  
 
Study  
 
25 Visitors may carry out the following study:  
(a) educational exchanges or visits with a UK state or independent 
school; or 
(b) a maximum of 30 days study, provided that the main purpose of the 
visit is not to study: 
 34 
(i) recreational courses (not English language training);  
(ii) a short-course (which includes English language training) at an 
accredited institution.  
 
Medical treatment 
 
26 An individual may receive private medical treatment provided they meet the 
additional eligibility requirements at V 4.14 – V 4.16. 
 
27 An individual may act as an organ donor or be assessed as a potential 
organ donor to an identified recipient in the United Kingdom, provided they 
meet the additional eligibility requirements at V 4.17 – V 4.20. 
 
 35 
VISITORS APPENDIX 4. PERMITTED PAID ENGAGEMENTS 
 
1 The following are permitted paid engagements:  
(a) an academic who is highly qualified within his or her field of expertise 
may examine students and/or participate in or chair selection panels, 
if they have been invited by a UK Higher Education Institution or a UK 
based research or arts organisation as part of that institution or 
organisation's quality assurance processes.  
(b) An expert may give lectures in their subject area, if they have been 
invited by a UK Higher Education Institution; or a UK based research 
or arts organisation provided this does not amount to filling a teaching 
position for the host organisation.  
(c) An overseas designated pilot examiner may assess UK based pilots to 
ensure they meet the national aviation regulatory requirements of other 
countries, if they have been invited by an approved training 
organisation based in the UK that is regulated by the UK Civil Aviation 
Authority for that purpose. 
(d) A qualified lawyer may provide advocacy for a court or tribunal 
hearing, arbitration or other form of dispute resolution for legal 
proceedings within the UK, if they have been invited by a client.  
(e) A professional artist, entertainer, musician or sports person may carry 
out an activity directly relating to their profession, if they have been 
invited by a creative (arts or entertainment) or sports organisation, 
agent or broadcaster based in the UK. 
 
 36 
VISITORS APPENDIX 5. PERMIT FREE FESTIVALS 
 
1 An artist, entertainer or musician visiting the UK to perform at one or more 
of the following permit free festivals may receive payment to do so: 
(a) Aberdeen International Youth Festival 
(b) Aldeburgh Festival 
(c) Alchemy (Southbank Centre) 
(d) Alnwick Festival 
(e) Barbican Festivals (Only connect: Bruce Dessner’s Marathon 
Weekend, Summer Festival,  Autumn 1: Transcender, Autumn 2 : Jazz 
at Lincoln Center) 
(f) Belfast International Arts Festival 
(g) Bestival 
(h) Billingham International Folklore Festival of World Dance 
(i) Birmingham International Jazz Festival 
(j) Breakin Covention 
(k) Brighton Festival 
(l) Brighton Fringe 
(m) Brouhaha International Street Festival 
(n) Calling Festival 
(o) Camp Bestival 
(p) Cambridge Folk Festival  
(q) Celtic Connections 
(r) Cheltenham Festivals (Jazz/Science/ Music/Literature) 
(s) City of London Festival 
(t) Cornwall International Male Voice Choral Festival 
(u) Dance Umbrella 
(v) Download 
(w) Edinburgh Festival Fringe 
(x) Edinburgh International Festival 
(y) Edinburgh Jazz and Blues Festival 
(z) Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo 
(aa) Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Cymru/National Eisteddfod of Wales 
(bb) Glasgow International Jazz Festival 
(cc) Glastonbury 
(dd) Glyndebourne 
(ee) Greenbelt 
(ff) Harrogate International Festival 
(gg) Hay Festival 
(hh) Huddersfield Contemporary Music Festival 
(ii) Latitude 
(jj) LIFT (not being held in 2015) 
(kk) (EFG) London Jazz Festival 
(ll) Leeds Festival 
(mm) Manchester International Festival 
(nn) Meltdown 
(oo) Norfolk and Norwich Festival 
(pp) Reading Festival 
(qq) Salisbury International Arts Festival 
(rr) Snape Festival 
 37 
(ss) T in the Park 
(tt) V Festival 
(uu) Wireless 
(vv) WOMAD 
(ww) Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
UK VISA REQUIREMENTS 
ALL nationals of the countries and territories listed below in red (underlined) need visas to enter or transit the UK. 
ALL nationals of the countries and territories listed below in black need visas to enter or transit the UK landside. 
ALL visa nationals may transit the UK without a visa (TWOV) in certain circumstances. Please see below for details. 
 
UK visas may now be in either physical form, or a digital eVisa. If a passenger holds a digital eVisa, the receipt of a ‘0A - Valid Permission to Travel Found’ response message,  
via iAPI messaging, Direct REST or web user interfaces is satisfactory evidence of a passenger’s permission to travel to the UK. 
  
Afghanistan 
Albania 
Algeria 
Angola 
Armenia 
Azerbaijan 
Bangladesh 
Belarus 
Benin 
Bhutan 
Bolivia 
Bosnia and  
     Herzegovina 
Botswana  (8) 
Burkina Faso 
Burundi 
Cambodia 
Cameroon 
Cape Verde 
Central African  
     Republic 
Chad 
China (People’s  
     Republic of) (1) 
Colombia  
Comoros 
 
Congo  
Congo Dem.  
     Republic 
Cuba 
Cyprus northern 
     part of (2) 
Djibouti 
Dominica  
Dominican Republic 
Ecuador 
Egypt 
El Salvador  
Equatorial Guinea 
Eritrea 
Eswatini (Swaziland) 
Ethiopia 
Fiji 
Gabon 
Gambia 
Georgia  
Ghana 
Guinea 
Guinea-Bissau 
Haiti 
Honduras  
 
India (3) 
Indonesia  
Iran 
Iraq 
Ivory Coast 
Jamaica 
Jordan 
Kazakhstan 
Kenya 
Korea (Dem.  
     People’s Republic) 
Kosovo 
Kyrgyzstan 
Laos 
Lebanon 
Lesotho 
Liberia 
Libya 
Madagascar  
Malawi 
Mali 
Mauritania 
Moldova 
Mongolia 
Montenegro 
 
Morocco 
Mozambique 
Myanmar (Burma) 
Namibia  
Nepal 
Niger 
Nigeria 
North Macedonia  
Pakistan 
Palestine 
Philippines 
Russia  
Rwanda 
Sao Tome e  
     Principe 
Senegal 
Serbia  
Sierra Leone 
Somalia (2) 
South Africa (7)  
South Sudan 
Sri Lanka 
 
Sudan 
Surinam 
Syria (6) 
Taiwan (4) 
Tajikistan 
Tanzania 
Thailand 
Timor–Leste  
Togo 
Trinidad and 
Tobago 
Tunisia 
Turkey (7) 
Turkmenistan 
Uganda 
Ukraine 
Uzbekistan  
Venezuela (non  
     biometric) 
Venezuela  
     (biometric) 
Vanuatu  
Vietnam (5) 
Yemen 
Zambia 
Zimbabwe                        
Please note, ETA eligible countries and requirements are not listed here. 
Guidance regarding ETA (Electronic Travel Authorisation) can be found here: 
www.gov.uk/electronictravelauthorisation 
 
Airside Transit (where available): 
Airside transit passengers are those who do not need to change airports and do not need to 
pass through the UK border. Passengers cannot transit AIRSIDE to the Republic of Ireland 
or anywhere within the common travel area. 
 
Transit without visa (TWOV) 
ALL visa nationals seeking to transit the United Kingdom AIRSIDE without a visa must:  
(i) arrive and depart by air; and 
(ii) have a confirmed onward flight departing the same day from the same airport; and  
(iii) hold the correct documents for their destination (e.g. a visa for that country if required) 
 
Nationals of the countries shown in RED (underlined) above need a visa to transit 
AIRSIDE unless they hold one of the following: 
(i) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA (whether or not 
the holder is travelling to or from these countries); or 
(ii) a visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA as part of a 
reasonable journey FROM the country in respect of which the visa is held and it is 
less than 6 months since the holder last entered that country with a valid entry visa. 
(iii) a valid permanent residence permit issued by: 
(a) Australia 
(b) Canada, issued after 28 June 2002 
(c) New Zealand 
(d) USA issued after 21 April 1998; or a valid US Immigrant visa endorsed with a 
US arrival stamp  (a wet-ink/ADIT stamp version will NOT be accepted by UK 
border control); or an expired I -551 Permanent Residence card provided it is 
accompanied by a valid I -797 letter authorising extension; or a standalone US 
Immigration Form 155A/155B (attached to a sealed brown envelope); or 
(iv) a valid common format residence permit issued by an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(v) a valid common format category D visa for entry to an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vi) a valid Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS (in order to transit to a 
destination other than the Republic of Ireland or the Common Travel Area); or 
(vii) a valid Sch engen Approved D estination Scheme (ADS) group tourism visa where 
the holder is travelling TO the country that issued it; or 
(viii) a valid airline ticket FROM the Schengen area; provided the holder can demonstrate 
they entered there no more than 30 days previously on the basis of a valid Schengen 
ADS visa. 
NB: Other countries’ e-visas or e-residence permits are not acceptable unless the airline is 
able to verify it with the issuing country.     
 
 
 
 
 
Landside Transit: 
Landside transit passengers are those who need or wish to pass through the UK border and 
enter the UK (e.g. to change airport, to collect baggage or arrive at airports where no airside 
transfer is possible)  
 
Transit without visa (TWOV)  
ALL visa nationals seeking to transit the United Kingdom LANDSIDE without a visa must:  
(iv) arrive and depart by air; and 
(v) have a confirmed onward flight that departs before 23:59hrs the following day; and  
(vi) hold the correct documents for their destination (e.g. a visa for that country if required) 
 
Nationals of ALL countries (RED [underlined] and BLACK above) need a visa to 
transit LANDSIDE unless they hold one of the following: 
(i) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Ca nada, New Zealand or the USA and a valid 
airline ticket via the UK as part of a reasonable journey TO that country; or 
(ii) a valid visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA and a valid 
airline ticket via the UK as part of a reasonable journey FROM that country; or 
(iii) a visa for entry to Australia, Canada, New Zealand or the USA as part of a 
reasonable journey FROM the country in respect of which the visa is held and it is 
less than 6 months since the holder last entered that country with a valid entry visa; 
or 
(iv) a valid permanent residence permit issued by: 
(a) Australia 
(b) Canada, issued after 28 June 2002 
(c) New Zealand 
(d) USA issued after 21 April 1998; or a valid US Immigrant visa  endorsed with a 
US arrival stamp  (a wet-ink/ADIT stamp version will NOT be accepted by UK 
border control); or an expired I -551 Permanent Residence card provided it is 
accompanied by a valid I -797 letter authorising extension; or a standalone US 
Immigration Form 155A/155B (attached to a sealed brown envelope); or 
(v) a valid common format residence permit issued by an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vi) a valid common format category D visa for entry to an EEA state or Switzerland; or 
(vii) a valid Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS and travelling TO the Republic 
of Ireland; or 
(viii)        an Irish biometric visa endorsed BC or BC BIVS and travelling FROM the Republic  
               of Ireland provided it is less than 3 months since the holder last entered there. 
  NB: Other countries’ e-visas or e-residence permits are NOT acceptable for landside transit. 
 
 
 
UK permanent residents 
If a visa national is permanently resident in the UK they do not need a visa, as long as they return to the UK within two years of their last departure. 
Passengers with the right of abode in the UK 
If a visa national has a ‘certificate of entitlement to the right of abode’ label in their valid passport they do not need a visa. 
Holders of non-national and refugee travel documents 
If the passenger holds a refugee travel document issued by the UK they do not need a visa. If the passenger holds any other non-national or refugee travel document they need a visa to enter the UK. 
Whether holders of non -national and refugee travel documents require a direct airside transit visa ( DATV) depends on their original nationality, and whether they qualify for one of the exemptions 
listed above. Persons recognised as stateless under the 1954 UN Convention relating to the Status of Stateless Persons are not required to hold a DATV and may transit airside without a visa. 
Seafarer 
A seafarer travelling on duty, who is a visa national (including those in transit through the UK) does not need a visa if they hold a valid seafarer’s book issued by one of these countries  which also 
contains a statement that it is issued under ILO108  (or convention of 1958)  or ILO185, having previously ratified ILO108  (or convention of 2003 ): Algeria, Anguilla, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Azerbaijan, Barbados, Belarus, Belize, Bermuda, Brazil, British Virgin Isles, Bulgaria, Cameroon, Canada, Cuba, Czech Republic, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, Estonia, Fiji, Finland, France, Ghana, 
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea -Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, Ind ia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy , Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Liberia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta,  Mauritius, Mexico, Moldova 
(Republic of), Montserrat, Morocco, Norway, Panama, Poland, Portugal, Romania, the Russian Federation, Seychelles, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri  Lanka, St Lucia, St Vincent and  the 
Grenadines, Sweden, Tajikistan, Tanzania, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom  (including the Falkland  Islands and Gibraltar), Uruguay. The seafarer does not need to be a national  of the 
country that issued the document.  
 
 
 
 
 Carrier Support Hub lines are for use by carriers and operators only. “Check if a passenger needs a UK visa service” to determine if a passenger requires a visa, here:  
Check if you need a UK visa - GOV.UK (www.gov.uk) 
The decision to allow a passenger to transit without a visa (TWOV) under the scheme is decided by an immigration officer at the UK border 
  Carriers and operators can seek advice about a passenger’s permission to travel, by calling the UK Border Force Carrier Support Hub 
 
 
1. Diplomatic or Service passport holders  may transit 
airside without a visa. 
2. Passport not recognised by HM Government – visa 
should be issued on a Form for Affixing a Visa (FAV). 
3. Diplomatic or official passport holders may transit 
without a visa. 
4. Passports that include a personal ID number on the 
biodata page are exempt from the visa requirement. 
5. Diplomatic or Official passport holders may transit 
airside without a visa. 
6. Holders may not use a B1/B2 USA visa to transit the 
UK. 
7. Diplomatic passport holders may transit airside 
without a visa. 
8. There will be a transition period from 15:00hrs (BST) 
14 October 2025 until 15:00hrs (GMT) 25 November 
2025 for nationals of Botswana seeking to enter the 
UK, during which passengers who hold a valid ETA 
and booked their travel before 15:00hrs ( BST) 14 
October 2025 who are scheduled to arrive in the 
United Kingdom before 15:00hrs ( GMT) 2 5 
November 2025 may travel without a visa. 
There will also be a transition period from 00:01hrs 
(BST) 1 5 October 2025 until 23:59hrs (GMT) 2 5 
November 2025 for nationals of Botswana seeking to 
transit the UK airside to an onward destination. 
Botswana nationals who pre-booked to transit airside 
prior to 00:01hrs (BST) 15 October 2025 for arrival in 
the UK for transit before 23:59 ( GMT) 25 November 
2025 may travel without a Direct Airside Transit visa. 
ETAs are not currently required for airside transit. 
 
 
 
 
 
Produced by: CARRIERS LIAISON SECTION, HOME OFFICE                               This poster was last updated November 2025 






































































































 
UK VISA SCREENING – DOCUMENT CHECKLIST AND GUIDANCE (2025) 
 
Source basis: This guide is based primarily on the official UK government guidance for the 
Student visa “Documents you’ll need to apply” and related pages (tuberculosis testing, 
English language evidence, ATAS) together with checklists published by UK universities and 
advisory organisations. It is written in simplified language for learning and “visa screening” 
purposes and is not a legal document. Always cross‑check with the latest guidance on 
GOV.UK before applying. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
1. INTRODUCTION 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
When you apply for a UK Student visa, the decision maker (UK Visas and Immigration – 
UKVI) checks that you: 
• are a genuine student with an unconditional offer; 
• will study an approved course at a licensed sponsor; 
• can support yourself financially and pay your tuition fees; 
• meet health and character requirements; and 
• have provided all mandatory supporting documents. 
 
This checking process is often called visa “screening”. If any required evidence is missing or 
does not meet the format rules, UKVI can refuse the application even if you are otherwise 
eligible. This document is designed as a training resource for building a UK visa‑screening 
system: it expands the official document list into a detailed, structured checklist that a 
system can use to verify whether the applicant has collected the correct evidence. 
 
The guide focuses on the standard Student visa route (for courses longer than 6 months) 
made from outside the UK. Many of the requirements are also relevant to applications made 
within the UK, but some details differ. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
2. CORE MANDATORY DOCUMENTS 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
2.1 Current passport or travel document 
 
Every applicant must provide a valid passport or other travel document. 
 
Key screening points: 
• The document must be valid on the date you submit the application and when you travel 
to the UK. 
• It should contain at least one blank page (front and back) so the visa vignette can be 
placed in it if an eVisa is not used. 
• The personal details page must be clearly readable and not damaged. 
• If the passport will expire very soon after arrival, applicants are strongly advised to renew 
it before applying, because replacing a passport from abroad can be difficult. 
 
Evidence format: 
• Original physical passport (for in‑person biometrics) or electronic copy if applying using 
the UK Immigration ID Check app. 
• If you hold more than one nationality, you may need to declare and provide details of all 
passports. 
 
2.2 Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) 
 
The second mandatory document is a Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) issued 
by a licensed Student sponsor (usually your university or college). The CAS is an electronic 
record, not a paper letter, but universities often provide a CAS statement for your reference. 
 
Key screening points: 
• CAS reference number: you must enter this correctly in the online application form. 
• The CAS must be issued by a sponsor with a valid Student sponsor licence. 
• The CAS must be for the course you intend to study and must not have been used in a 
previous visa application that was granted or is still pending. 
• The CAS will contain key details such as course title, level, start and end dates, tuition fees 
for the first year or whole course, and any fees already paid. 
 
System‑level checks for visa screening: 
• Validate that a CAS number has been entered. 
• Confirm that the course level meets the Student visa rules (for example, RQF level 3 or 
above for further education, or degree‑level study). 
• Confirm that the course start date is within the permitted timeframe for applying. 
• Record the tuition fee amount and any pre‑paid tuition/accommodation fees because 
these affect the financial requirement. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
3. FINANCIAL EVIDENCE (MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENT) 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Official guidance says you may need to provide proof that you have enough money to 
support yourself and pay your tuition fees. The exact amount depends on course location, 
length and how long you have already lived in the UK. 
 
3.1 What you usually need to show 
 
For most first‑time applications made outside the UK, the applicant must show: 
 
• Remaining tuition fees for the first year of the course (or for the full course if it lasts 12 
months or less), minus any fees already paid to the university and confirmed on the CAS. 
• Living costs (also called “maintenance funds”) for up to 9 months, calculated using Home 
Office rates, e.g.: 
  – a monthly amount for London; 
  – a slightly lower monthly amount for cities outside London. 
(Exact monetary values change over time and should be taken from the current guidance.) 
 
3.2 Types of acceptable financial documents 
 
Common types of evidence include: 
 
a) Personal bank statements 
• Must show the required funds held for a continuous period (often 28 days) ending no 
more than 31 days before the application date. 
• Statement must include: account holder’s name, account number, financial institution 
name and logo, and all transactions/balances for the period. 
• Screenshots or online print‑outs are acceptable only if they contain all required details 
and are clearly from a regulated bank. 
 
b) Fixed‑deposit certificates or savings accounts 
• Must be in an account that allows the funds to be withdrawn. 
• Evidence should show that the deposit can be accessed immediately, not locked beyond 
the application date. 
 
c) Parents’ or legal guardians’ finances 
• Allowed if you are using a parent’s or guardian’s bank account. 
• Must provide: 
  – Bank statements in the parent/guardian’s name; and 
  – Proof of relationship (for example, birth certificate, adoption certificate or court 
document); and 
  – A signed letter from the parent/guardian confirming that the funds will be used to 
support your study and living costs in the UK. 
 
d) Official financial sponsorship 
• A letter from a government body, international scholarship agency, university, or 
international company confirming that they will cover some or all of your tuition fees and 
living costs. 
• The letter must be on official letterhead, dated, signed and include: 
  – Sponsor’s name and contact details; 
  – Applicant’s name; 
  – Duration of sponsorship; and 
  – Amount or full coverage of costs. 
 
3.3 Screening rules for financial documents 
 
A visa‑screening system should check: 
 
• Is financial evidence required for this applicant? 
  – Applicants extending their visa from inside the UK after 12 continuous months of lawful 
residence may not need to show funds. 
• Are documents dated within the permitted period? 
• Does the total balance meet or exceed the calculated requirement (tuition + maintenance 
minus allowed deductions)? 
• Do the documents cover a full continuous 28‑day period (or other period stated in current 
rules)? 
• Are funds in a permitted currency and held in an acceptable financial institution? 
• If using parents’ funds, is relationship evidence and consent letter present? 
• If the applicant received official sponsorship within the last 12 months and that 
sponsorship has ended, do they have written consent from the previous sponsor allowing 
them to remain and re‑enter the UK? 
 
3.4 Common financial refusal reasons 
 
• Funds held for fewer than 28 continuous days. 
• Evidence older than 31 days on the date of application. 
• Using an account belonging to someone else without showing relationship and consent. 
• Submitting financial documents from an unregulated or banned financial institution. 
• Miscalculating the required amount, especially for dependants or London vs outside 
London. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
4. ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND ATAS EVIDENCE 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
4.1 Proving knowledge of English 
 
For most Student visa applications, you must show that you can speak, read, write and 
understand English to a certain level. Evidence may include: 
 
• An academic qualification taught in English and accepted by UKVI as meeting the 
requirement; or 
• An approved English language test (for example IELTS for UKVI, PTE Academic UKVI or 
similar) at the level appropriate for your course; or 
• Being a national of a majority English‑speaking country listed by the Home Office; or 
• Having completed a degree‑level qualification in the UK previously. 
 
Screening checks: 
• Does the course require English evidence based on its level and whether it is below degree 
level? 
• If a test certificate is used: 
  – Is the test provider on the list of approved Secure English Language Test (SELT) 
providers? 
  – Is the test still valid on the date of application? 
  – Are the scores at or above the minimum for the CAS/course level? 
 
4.2 Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS) 
 
For certain postgraduate courses in sensitive subjects (mainly science, engineering and 
technology fields), students of specific nationalities must obtain an ATAS certificate before 
applying for a visa. 
 
Key points: 
• The CAS will normally state whether ATAS is required and include the relevant subject 
code. 
• The ATAS certificate is issued as a digital letter. It must be valid (usually 6 months) when 
the visa application is submitted. 
• If ATAS is required and not provided, the visa will be refused. 
 
Screening checks: 
• Check CAS to see if ATAS is required. 
• Confirm that an ATAS certificate is attached and that: 
  – The course details and institution match the CAS; and 
  – The applicant’s personal details match the rest of the application; and 
  – The decision date on the certificate is within the allowed period. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
5. TUBERCULOSIS (TB) TEST CERTIFICATE 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Students coming to the UK for more than 6 months from certain listed countries must 
provide a tuberculosis (TB) test certificate from a Home Office‑approved clinic. 
 
Key information from the TB guidance: 
• You need a TB test if: 
  – You are coming to the UK for more than 6 months; and 
  – You have lived in one of the listed countries for 6 months or more; and 
  – You were living in that country (or another listed country) within the last 6 months. 
• The test is usually a chest x‑ray. If the x‑ray is unclear, you may need a sputum (phlegm) 
test. 
• If the test shows you do not have TB, you receive a certificate that is valid for 6 months 
from the date of the x‑ray. 
• Children must attend an approved clinic. Children under 11 usually do not need a chest 
x‑ray, but a medical practitioner must complete a questionnaire and issue a certificate if the 
child is TB‑free. 
• There are separate options for pregnant applicants (shielded x‑ray, sputum test, or 
postponing the test until after delivery). 
 
Screening checks: 
• Is the applicant applying from a TB‑listed country, or have they recently lived there? 
• Is the course longer than 6 months (Student visa normally is)? 
• If yes, has the applicant provided a TB certificate issued by an approved clinic? 
• Is the certificate: 
  – Less than 6 months old on the date of application? 
  – Clearly matching the applicant’s identity details? 
• For dependants applying with the student, each dependant from a TB‑listed country must 
also provide a TB certificate. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
6. APPLICANTS UNDER 18 – PARENTAL CONSENT AND RELATIONSHIP EVIDENCE 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
If you are under 18 at the time of application, you must provide extra documents to show 
that your parents or legal guardians consent to your study and living arrangements in the 
UK. 
 
6.1 Parental or guardian consent 
 
You normally need written consent from both parents, or the one parent who has sole legal 
responsibility, or your legal guardian(s). The consent letter must: 
 
• State that they consent to your Student visa application; 
• Confirm that they agree with your living and care arrangements in the UK; and 
• Confirm that they consent to your travel to and from the UK. 
 
For screening, check that: 
• The letter is signed and dated. 
• The names in the letter match the names on your birth certificate or guardianship 
documents. 
• The letter clearly mentions all three areas of consent (application, living/care 
arrangements, and travel). 
 
6.2 Proof of relationship 
 
You must also provide evidence of your relationship to your parent(s) or guardian(s). 
Typical documents include: 
 
• Birth certificate showing the names of both parents; 
• Adoption certificate; 
• Court order or legal document confirming guardianship. 
 
These documents must be original or properly certified copies. If they are not in English or 
Welsh, an official translated version must also be provided. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
7. PREVIOUS SPONSORSHIP CONSENT 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
If, in the last 12 months, you were financially sponsored by a government or an 
international scholarship agency for both tuition fees and living costs, and that sponsorship 
has ended, you must provide a letter from that sponsor giving you unconditional consent to 
remain or re‑enter the UK for further study. 
 
The consent letter should: 
• Be on official letterhead; 
• Include your full name and, ideally, your date of birth or passport number; 
• Confirm that the sponsor supports your new course in the UK and has no objection to your 
visa application; and 
• Be signed, dated and include contact information of an authorised official. 
 
Screening rule: 
• If an applicant declares previous full sponsorship, the file must contain this consent letter. 
Without it, the visa can be refused even if financial funds are otherwise sufficient. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
8. ACADEMIC QUALIFICATIONS AND SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Depending on your level of study and nationality, you may be required to submit academic 
qualifications listed on your CAS. 
 
8.1 When qualifications are required 
 
• If you are studying below degree level and are not from a “differential evidence” country, 
you must normally submit the qualification documents used to obtain your offer (for 
example, school certificates, college transcripts). 
• If you are from a differential evidence country or studying at degree level or above, you 
may not have to upload documents with your application, but you must keep them ready 
because UKVI can request them during screening. 
 
Common types of academic evidence: 
• Certificates of qualification (for example, 12th grade mark sheet, bachelor’s degree 
certificate); 
• Official transcripts of results, stamped or sealed by the institution; 
• Printouts of results from an awarding body’s secure online verification system. 
 
Screening checks: 
• Do the qualification names and grades match the details in the CAS? 
• Are documents genuine‑looking (correct logos, spelling, signatures, seals)? 
• If any document is not in English or Welsh, is a certified translation attached? 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
9. TRANSLATIONS AND DOCUMENT FORMAT 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Any supporting document that is not in English or Welsh must be accompanied by a fully 
certified translation. The translation must: 
 
• Be done by a professional translator or translation company; 
• Include confirmation that it is an accurate translation of the original document; 
• Include the date of translation; 
• Include the translator’s or translation company’s full name and contact details; and 
• Bear the translator’s signature. 
 
Screening checks: 
• For every non‑English/Welsh document, confirm that a corresponding translation is 
present and meets the above requirements. 
• Verify that the information in the translation matches the original document (names, 
dates, numbers). 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
10. DEPENDANT FAMILY MEMBERS 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Some students are allowed to bring dependants (partner and children) to the UK. The 
current Student visa rules restrict who can bring dependants, and these rules change over 
time, so they must always be checked against the latest official guidance. 
 
Typical evidence for dependants includes: 
• Marriage or civil partnership certificate (for partners); 
• Birth certificate for each child; 
• Evidence that the relationship is genuine and subsisting (for example, joint bank accounts, 
joint tenancy agreements, photos, communication history), if requested; 
• Additional financial evidence to show that you have enough money to support each 
dependant for the required number of months, on top of your own maintenance 
requirement; 
• TB test certificates for dependants from listed countries. 
 
A visa‑screening system should be able to: 
• Detect when an application includes dependants; 
• Calculate extra maintenance funds required for each dependant; and 
• Verify that relationship documents and TB certificates are present for each dependant, if 
relevant. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
11. IDENTITY VERIFICATION, BIOMETRICS AND INTERVIEW 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Although not “documents” in the traditional sense, identity verification steps are part of the 
screening process. 
 
11.1 Biometrics appointment or ID Check app 
 
Most applicants must either: 
• Attend a visa application centre, where fingerprints and a digital photograph are taken; or 
• Use the UK Immigration ID Check app to scan their passport chip and upload a selfie. 
 
The data collected is used to: 
• Confirm your identity; 
• Produce a visa vignette or eVisa record; and 
• Cross‑check against immigration and security databases. 
 
11.2 Credibility interviews 
 
In some cases, UKVI may invite you to a short interview, often via video link. You may be 
asked about: 
• Your course choice and knowledge of the university; 
• How you will fund your studies and living costs; 
• Your previous academic background; and 
• Your plans after completing the course. 
 
While these are not documents, they are part of the overall “screening” of a Student visa 
application. Your answers should be consistent with the documents you provided. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
12. HIGH‑LEVEL CHECKLIST FOR A UK STUDENT VISA SCREENING SYSTEM 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
Below is an example of how an automated or semi‑automated screening checklist might be 
structured. Each item corresponds to one or more documents and rules described earlier. 
 
A. Identity and course details 
1. Valid passport or travel document uploaded and readable. 
2. CAS reference number provided and valid. 
3. Course level and start date meet Student visa requirements. 
 
B. Financial requirement 
4. Tuition fee amount and any pre‑payments recorded from CAS. 
5. Living‑cost requirement calculated according to location and duration. 
6. Financial documents provided in an acceptable format (bank statements, 
sponsor letters, etc.). 
7. Funds held for at least the required continuous period and are recent 
enough. 
8. If using parent/guardian funds: relationship evidence and consent letter 
present. 
9. If previously officially sponsored within the last 12 months: sponsor consent 
letter attached. 
 
C. English language and ATAS 
10. Appropriate English language evidence provided where required. 
11. If course requires ATAS: ATAS certificate attached and valid. 
 
D. Health requirements 
12. TB certificate provided if applicant or dependants meet the criteria. 
13. Certificate issued by a Home Office‑approved clinic and still within validity. 
 
E. Age and parental consent 
14. Applicant’s age verified. 
15. If under 18: parental/guardian consent letter(s) attached. 
16. Relationship evidence (birth/adoption certificate, court order) attached. 
 
F. Academic and course‑related evidence 
17. Academic qualification documents provided where required by CAS and rules. 
18. All non‑English/Welsh documents accompanied by certified translations. 
 
G. Dependants (if applicable) 
19. For each dependant: 
    – Relationship evidence attached (marriage/birth certificate); 
    – TB certificate attached if required; 
    – Extra funds included in financial calculations. 
 
H. Process completion 
20. Biometrics or ID Check app process scheduled/completed. 
21. Application form submitted with consistent information across all sections. 
22. Application fee and Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS) paid. 
 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
13. CONCLUSION AND BEST PRACTICES 
------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
The UK Student visa process is rule‑based and document‑heavy. Many refusals arise from 
missing, inconsistent or incorrectly formatted documents rather than from ineligibility. A 
robust visa‑screening system should therefore: 
 
• Mirror the official GOV.UK structure: “Check if this visa is right for you”, “Prepare the 
evidence you need”, “Apply”, and so on. 
• Provide dynamic checklists based on the applicant’s circumstances (age, nationality, 
where they apply from, dependants, previous sponsorship). 
• Guide applicants step by step to upload each required document in the correct format. 
• Highlight high‑risk areas, such as financial evidence and TB certificates, where refusals are 
common. 
• Store structured metadata (for example, document type, issue date, issuing authority, 
currency, balance) so that automated validation rules can be applied. 
 
For real visa applications, applicants must always rely on the most recent Home Office 
guidance and, where necessary, professional immigration advice. However, this document 
gives a comprehensive, structured view of the evidence typically needed for UK Student visa 
screening and can be used both as a learning aid and as source material inside a 
Retrieval‑Augmented Generation (RAG) system for query answering. 
 